---
title: "Simulating NBA Players Using GPT-2"
date: 2020-03-23
permalink: /projects/2020/03/23/gpt2
tags:
    - python
    - notebook
--- 

The goal of this project was to simulate an NBA player interview for the many
iconic players.

Note that this project needs high performance GPUs. Thus, I ran it on Google
Colab using Nvidia's T4 GPU.

For those interested in running the project on their own, refer to [this Google
Colab Project](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1LrZInAE1apS0gps2_8-xJhA9
MYoikDIC).
 
 
I want to give credit to Max Woolf, the creator of
[gpt-2-simple](https://github.com/minimaxir/gpt-2-simple/). This package wraps
existing model fine-tuning and generation scripts for [OpenAI's GPT-2 text
generation model](https://openai.com/blog/better-language-models/).

Although text generation is possible without using such a model as demonstrated
on one of my eariler [blog
posts](https://vishaalagartha.github.io/notes/2020/03/12/subreddit-simulator),
it often leads to unsatisfactory results. GPT-2 will provide performance and
results that simulate our players in a more human manner. 
 
# Choosing the Player Name 

**In [0]:**

{% highlight python %}
player_name = 'Kawhi Leonard'
file_name = player_name.lower().replace(' ', '_')+'.txt'
run_name = player_name.lower().replace(' ', '_')

{% endhighlight %}
 
# Installation and Imports 

**In [2]:**

{% highlight python %}
%tensorflow_version 1.x
!pip install -q gpt-2-simple
import gpt_2_simple as gpt2
from datetime import datetime
from google.colab import files
import tensorflow as tf
{% endhighlight %}

      Building wheel for gpt-2-simple (setup.py) ... [?25l[?25hdone
    WARNING:tensorflow:
    The TensorFlow contrib module will not be included in TensorFlow 2.0.
    For more information, please see:
      * https://github.com/tensorflow/community/blob/master/rfcs/20180907-contrib-sunset.md
      * https://github.com/tensorflow/addons
      * https://github.com/tensorflow/io (for I/O related ops)
    If you depend on functionality not listed there, please file an issue.
    

 
# Data Scraping

We can scrape data using player interviews on [ASAP
interviews](http://www.asapsports.com/showcat.php?id=11&event=yes).

Given a player's name, we navigate to the page corresponding to the last name
initial. For example, for the name 'LeBron James', we navigate to the ['j'
page](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?category=11&letter=j).

Then, we look for the player's name on that page and find the corresponding
anchor tag and scrape every interview the player's page. For example, take a
look at [LeBron's interview
page](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13888) 

**In [3]:**

{% highlight python %}
import requests
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup

# Get a player's url from ASAP Sports
def get_player_url(name):  
    c = name.split(' ')[1].lower()
    url = f'http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?category=11&letter={c}'
    r = requests.get(url)
    names = player_name.split(' ')
    player_url = None
    if r.status_code==200:
        soup = BeautifulSoup(r.content, 'html.parser')
        for a in soup.find_all('a'):
            if names[0] in a.text and names[1] in a.text:
                player_url = a.attrs['href']
    return player_url

# Get individual interview urls from ASAP Sports
def get_interview_urls(player_url):
    r = requests.get(player_url)
    interviews = []
    if r.status_code==200:
        soup = BeautifulSoup(r.content, 'html.parser')
        for a in soup.find_all('a'):
            if 'show_interview' in a.attrs['href']:
                interviews.append(a.attrs['href'])
    return interviews

# Scraping tool once we have the interview url
def scrape_interview(interview_url):
    r = requests.get(interview_url)
    if r.status_code==200:
        soup = BeautifulSoup(r.content, 'html.parser')
        [s.extract() for s in soup(['style', 'script', '[document]', 'head', 'title'])]
        visible_text = soup.getText()
        comments = []
        get_next_line = False
        for line in visible_text.split('\n'):
            if line.startswith('Q.'):
                get_next_line = True
            elif line=='FastScripts Transcript by ASAP Sports':
                break
            elif get_next_line:
                if ':' in line:
                    fixed_line = line[line.index(':')+2:].rstrip()
                else:
                    fixed_line = line.rstrip()
                comments.append(fixed_line)
    return comments

player_url = get_player_url(player_name)
interview_urls = get_interview_urls(player_url)
comments = []
print('Scraping interviews...')
for i in range(0, len(interview_urls)):
    print(i, ' of ', len(interview_urls))
    url = interview_urls[i]
    comments+=scrape_interview(url)
print(' '.join(comments).replace(u'Â\xa0 ', ''))
with open(file_name, 'w') as f:
    f.write(' '.join(comments).replace(u'Â\xa0 ', ''))
{% endhighlight %}

    Scraping interviews...
    0  of  49
    1  of  49
    2  of  49
    3  of  49
    4  of  49
    5  of  49
    6  of  49
    7  of  49
    8  of  49
    9  of  49
    10  of  49
    11  of  49
    12  of  49
    13  of  49
    14  of  49
    15  of  49
    16  of  49
    17  of  49
    18  of  49
    19  of  49
    20  of  49
    21  of  49
    22  of  49
    23  of  49
    24  of  49
    25  of  49
    26  of  49
    27  of  49
    28  of  49
    29  of  49
    30  of  49
    31  of  49
    32  of  49
    33  of  49
    34  of  49
    35  of  49
    36  of  49
    37  of  49
    38  of  49
    39  of  49
    40  of  49
    41  of  49
    42  of  49
    43  of  49
    44  of  49
    45  of  49
    46  of  49
    47  of  49
    48  of  49
    I mean, it's a point, so we can't take out free throws through the whole game. They pretty much made the last six or seven free throws towards the end. They kept giving them. So do we want to minus those points as well? But the new format was good. I felt like it was fun in that fourth quarter. No. Winning it is a plus. I didn't come in the game saying, I'm going to take that trophy home. I think I came in and made my first two shots and kept shooting and made shots. That's when I told myself I'm going to go try to get it. Frank just drew up a good play to start the game. And Bron with his vision, he'd seen me open and passed me the ball, and I knocked down a shot, and it pretty much went on from there. Like I said, I made the first two. It felt good and kept rolling with it and ended up knocking some more down. Yeah, I mean, my mindset is always just to try to make my team the best team at the end of the season, and if I'm fortunate enough to win a regular season MVP, then I'll be happy with it. I always just want to win championships. I'm not really concerned with the personal goal. So I always just want to play on an MVP level so my team can win. It's very special. Like I said, I had a relationship with him. Words can't explain how happy I am for it. Able to put that trophy in my room, in my trophy room, and just be able to see Kobe's name on there, it just means a lot to me. He's a big inspiration in my life. He did a lot for me. I pretty much carry that every year, you know what I mean? I'm going to play hard. That's what I do. I want to go in and win every game. Whatever happens happens from there. I would dedicate anything to him. I don't think it really does, you know what I mean? It's totally different. A bunch of All-Stars coming together is a different game, different teammates, different coaches. So it's just back to our grind now, the regular season grind, and hopefully everybody can stay healthy on our team and we can make a push. It was fun. I played with Bron and A.D. last year, and I think the year before that or so. But it's always fun just to get around guys that are very competitive, see what they do on an everyday basis. Just talking, just being their teammate. We go at each other all year round, and just, like I said, it's great to be able to pick their brain and just be around them and joke and laugh. No, I don't have a prediction. I think he'll do well. He's a great three-point shooter. You've got to get hot in those types of games. He's a guy that can get hot and streak out 10 in a row. So I think he'll do a good job. Just from my first time with the Spurs? It's a lot different. I mean, the offense is ran through me pretty much. It's a totally different team, different city. I'm more aggressive. I'm older. I learned a lot more than -- this is my ninth year in the league now. That was my third year. I just learned a lot more. Smarter player, understand the game a lot more. Oh, yeah, I think what are they, 25-0 right now, got a chance to make history, keep making history. I know the coach isn't satisfied and the players aren't. They're playing hard and still want to win. Not necessarily adjustments, but just keep trying to gel together and see if we can become better. Just trying to get better every day. We all know where my destinations were.  But obviously like I said, when I was there on my opening day meeting that I was focused on the now, and I wanted to make history here and that's all did I.  I just, I'm still playing basketball no matter what jersey I have on.  And the guys here have been making runs in the playoffs before I came, so I know they were a talented team.  And I just came in with the right mindset, let's go out and win ball games.  I texted Kyle probably a day later -- or the day that I got traded and told him I said let's go out and do something special.  I know your best friend left, I know you're mad, but let's make this thing work out.  And we are here today. Well, first, I'll start with Klay.  I hope he's okay.  I never want to see a good friend of mine go out like that.  I hope he's able to recover from it or it's nothing serious.  And when he went down I just really thought about him.  I didn't care about the game that much.  Once he left, you just, we got to flip our mindset back to trying to beat the Warriors.  So that's what I did.  With the shot with Steph, it didn't look like it was a good shot.  I mean he hits those shots, but I wasn't too worried about it at that moment.  Obviously he can make that.  He made it millions of times, but I just was focused on the rebound.  I've been in situations like that in a Finals that I lost by two or three points, and we lost that game because of rebounds.  I forgot who shot the ball, you guys know the story.  It was the last two possessions for Miami, they got two chances to shoot threes -- well, four chances at the basket out of two possessions.  And that was my fault because I was trying to get the rebound.  And once he missed the ball I tried to keep tipping it so some more time could run out.  Didn't want to grab it right away so they could foul me.  And Draymond ended up waiting with .9 seconds and called a timeout and kept moving from there. Well, just the year, last year, a lot of people were doubting me.  They thought I was either faking an injury or didn't want to play for a team.  That was disappointing to go me that that was out in the media, because I love the game of basketball.  Like I always say, if we're not playing this game, if we're hurt, I mean you're down.  So me just going through that, and I just knew that I would have to make myself happy and no one else.  And I have to trust myself.  And whatever, it doesn't matter what anybody has to say about me.  I know who I am as a person, I know how I feel, and always just trust yourself.  And that was my goal and my focus.  And that's why one of the things that I take on the floor.  I don't care about what the media has to say about me or if they want me to score or whatever, 30 points, because I did the game before, I'm going to come out and play the right way, I'm not trying to make headlines.  And that's just things that I pretty much learned just throughout this journey of being in the NBA.  So that's how I just keep growing up as a man and that's why I say, I just think about my past life and try to learn from situations and be wise and learn from others. It meant a lot.  Like I said, last summer was tough.  I was still rehabbing and just trusted the process, really, with myself.  I told myself I would be back.  I wasn't going to come back until I could be the player I am today.  I wanted to come back in the same shape and form without coming out playing five games and then re-injuring something.  I wanted to be able to play the season -- or what did I this year.  I wasn't able to play 82, but I'm happy that I got to the 60 games.  Just being able to win this championship this year is just something special for me because you know how the last year everybody was looking at me, and I stayed true to myself, and I had a great support system.  And once I got here to Toronto they understood everything and kept moving from there. That was very special.  Obviously I didn't come out in this series trying to win it.  It was a whole group collectively.  Tonight Fred played amazing in that fourth.  Kyle played amazing tonight throughout the whole game.  Pascal played big.  I just kept striving and pushing and I ended up with the trophy but everybody deserves it. I don't know.  It really doesn't just come to my head.  It's just about going through a season.  Just being able to be the best player on your team, or one of the best players.  Once you keep going, reaching the steps and getting to the next round of the playoffs or just making it to the playoffs, I guess my mindset is just to keep playing and just want to win throughout the season.  You come into the playoffs with the same mindset: I want to win today's game, I want to win today's game.  And I feel like just having that carry over pretty much helps me or helps your team or players that get in this position. I can't remember really any teachers' names.  Just really like math class more than any of my other classes, like English or history and things like that.  I guess it just made more sense to me to use in everyday life. It's great to have teammates on your team that have confidence in you.  It helps give you extra drive, an extra push to be better.  When you play or don't play with someone, you can see how good or not good they are once you're on a team with them.  I guess he's seeing me now. Just from any other game: Look at our mistakes, try not to make them again.  Go out there in the next game and just play with each other, have one focus and one goal and try to win it. Once it happened, I thought about it a lot.  But as I got older, I pretty much just really stopped thinking about it.  I think it just gave me a sense and feel that life and basketball are two different things and just really enjoy your time and moments.  Like I always say, this is basketball; just go out there and have fun.  These are going to be the best years of my life, playing this game.  Being 27, this young, you shouldn't be stressing in life about things that really don't matter.  As long as your family is healthy, you're able to see the people that you love and you're able to walk, run, you're not injured.  So all those things go into account.  Go out here, lay it all out on the floor, do the best job I could possibly do and try to win. Just from my own experience, I can talk from what I've been through.  Like I said, we work so hard to get to this point and the game gets taken away from you, especially with leg injuries and things like that, you're not really able to run or do anything on the floor.  So you really just have to change your mindset on things and try to attack each day of getting better and just know that you're going to play again one day.  You want to come back as the player that you were.  Make sure you come back when you feel healthy and you feel good enough that you feel confident enough in yourself to go back out there on the floor.  Know that that day will come.  And just like I said, attack each day.  That's your assignment, to get back to the thing that you love to do. Definitely.  Even before it gets down to the stretch, you feel like you want to play great.  You want to make the next shot or get the next stop.  Like I said before about going through regular season and the playoffs, it's kind of your mind is into that already.  You got to carry over from either the first possession to the last possession.  You want to get a stop or a score.  To really say at that time like, Oh, I feel so much pressure.  You really don't.  I think once your adrenaline is going, it's a lot different than you watching the game because your mindset is totally different. You're within that moment, and you're embracing it and enjoying what's going to happen next. Really didn't have nothing drawn up at that point.  They got a turnover, and I got the ball at the top of the key, as you've seen, and the double team and swing, swing, just didn't get it off quick enough. They're dangerous.  Obviously KD makes them a different team, they have been here before and that's probably a question you're going to have to ask them.  I'm just focusing on our team and what we got to do next game. But they played great tonight in the last three quarters after KD exited. No, other than KD, that was a big difference in the beginning.  But they just pretty much, they played fast early on, trying to get buckets in transition early, and obviously they made 20 threes tonight, Klay and Steph hit some big ones late in the game. At that time I felt that, like you said, he probably wanted to get us some rest at that moment.  You never know, I mean, if we would have won the game, we wouldn't be talking about it. I think they scored like nine points in a minute, back-to-back threes.  They got some easy looks, Klay got a wide-open look twice.  Steph came off a pin-down, got an open look and he hit the three as well.  Pretty much we had a big turnover when we were up three.  K-Lo tried to swing it back to Marc, he just wasn't there to catch the ball, and that was pretty much the ball game right there.  They came down, hit a three, and another three and we weren't able to score. Like what do I think about his situation?  It's devastating.  Like you said, you work so hard to get to this point, these are the last games, you see him try to come out and push himself, but obviously he tried to do a move -- and I feel bad for him.  I've been in that situation before.  I hope he has a speedy recovery, and just gets healthy and I hope that he's going to be okay mentally, just throughout the whole rehab process.  Because like I said before, we work so hard to either play in the Finals or just play in the NBA, and when you're not playing, it's hard to wrap your mind around it.  But I'm pretty sure he's going to attack each day and get better and come back strong. I mean, just try to come out and match that emotion and that drive.  Come out and do the same thing, just be mentally focused, try to limit our mistakes, and be the aggressor.  Just play hard 48 minutes and see what happens.  Play confident. Well, I mean two guys came up on me, I don't know if I could have got a shot off.  It's hard.  If you got two guys on top of you, you have to try to find the right play.  We ended up getting a shot in the corner, but it just didn't go off quick enough. I was just pretty much fight through adversity.  It's not going to be easy, stay confident.  We know we can win and that's it.  I'm not going to say everything, but those are the main key points. I think a couple of us were playing a little bit too fast on the offensive end.  But we scored 28 points in the first quarter, could have played a little bit better defense, like guys were getting open shots.  I guess nerves probably settled down from there and we started to play a little better basketball. But we're going against a great team and they weren't going to quit. I think he will recover from it.  I was just saying like, I hope he's keeping his spirits up through it.  I know he's going to get through it.  He's a great basketball player and he wants to come back and be a great player, Hall of Fame player.  But the simple fact that you're just hurt, like I was saying, and you want to get out and play, but you really got to just take your time and be patient and let the weeks and months go by. I'm not sure what his injury is right now.  I pray for him and I hope that he has a Godspeed recovery. Just stay in the same routine and just focus what's in front of me.  Obviously, as you said, human beings, we do think in the future.  Been thinking in the future since the beginning of the season, just trying to get to this point.  You just got to stay current and stay in your routine, be patient and not rush anything. Obviously you're playing against a better team, a championship team. That's pretty much the only difference.  Other than a regular playoff game, you're just playing against a better team at that point in time. I think we have been embracing it this whole time.  Just enjoying the support and the energy that they're bringing to the team.  With that being said, they help us stay focused in the moment.  You just got to be patient.  Don't rush anything. Stay focused on what we're doing. Just take it a minute at a time. No, it didn't.  It didn't happen yet, no. It is pressure with any game.  I don't think it's any added pressure to it.  We still have to go out there and play a basketball game.  Whatever game or significance of the game or time, you always want to play great defense and make a shot.  It's pretty much just a title over it right now.  Just go out and play.  Play it, enjoy it and whatever happens we'll see the results. Yeah, the year I had last year and then just being able to play in The Finals this year has been great.  But I've been happy just being able to return to basketball at the beginning of the regular season.  It's pretty much something that I look back on of not being able to play and now I'm able to play.  So just enjoy it. It's why you're here.  You never know when those times will come when you're not going to be able to play or you get injured. That's what my mindset really comes from and what made me grow as a player, because those are the worst times in basketball.  It's not losing games or missing shots; it's about you being able to play or not on the floor.  I grew up my whole life wanting to play in the NBA.  And when that's taken away, it's terrible. Looking at rebounds, turnovers and field goal percentage for each team.  Obviously, points in the paint and just seeing what were the runs.  That's pretty much it.  But the big three things that I look at are turnovers and rebounds and field goal percentage. Just growing up playing basketball, pretty much.  Like I always said, just learning from past experience, past games that I lost, games that I won.  Seeing what I felt like or what I was thinking at those specific times and just bringing it back to current-day reality, the moment that I'm in.  Making sure I can use the things that were good and delete the things that were bad to help me be more successful. I'm still trying to get better every day today with it.  Either with basketball or off the floor.  It's an everyday battle. I think it's just we're focused.  We know that it doesn't mean anything until someone has four wins.  You never know what could happen and you got to take advantage of it and don't get overly hyped and excited.  Still a great basketball team on the other side.  I think that was our mindset.  We had a goal going out there, and we accomplished it.  Now in a possible three games, we have to win one. Yeah, for sure.  You do your warm up, get treatment before the game, off days after the game, whatever, that can help speed your recovery up so you're able to play the next day. We're playing two different teams, and I think we're a lot younger, we can switch pretty much if Serge is in the lineup 1 through 5 and, I don't know, I mean, it's hard to say.  I got to watch film and see what I see. But for the most part, that's what pretty much sticks out.  We're probably a little bit longer, a little bit more athletic and able to switch like 1 through 5. Yeah, I mean, at the same time I knew I had faith that it was going to turn around for us.  We were missing a lot of wide-open shots.  Obviously I was getting to my spots and shooting the ball, but like you said, as the quarter went on towards, the last four, five minutes, I tried to stay as aggressive as possible, get to my spots, be confident, shoot the basketball.  And within that first quarter, I still was passing the ball.  I wanted my teammates to stay in a rhythm and know that I'm going to give them the ball when they're open. It's not over yet, so I can't say that we're better.  Just the key to tonight's win was pretty much, as you guys know, playing defense.  And towards that second half we started to make some shots, and we just pretty much stuck into the game, stayed in the game. I pretty much just said it, our defense and willing to stay in the game, have faith, not put our head down, knowing that we're going to make shots.  And that's pretty much what happened tonight. Nothing, really.  We were confident.  We're on the road, down four, we wanted to come in and have a good third quarter coming out the first five minutes, stay aggressive on both end of the floor, keep our energy up.  And that's all we did. Obviously just stay focused on Klay and Steph, just try and make sure they don't get in too good of a rhythm.  They're great players, just try to make sure we contest them as much as possible. And then on the other end just come down and try to have some ball movement, some flow, some pace, and just make hard cuts and just believe, stay confident in your shot, and that's what happened. You just got to be patient with it.  Not really.  We were two games away, four games away, it doesn't matter until you get that fourth win.  We just have to stay confident in ourselves, be patient, don't try to rush things, and see how it plays out. You're saying was I surprised they didn't switch more and not double?  No, I thought we played well on the switches.  They put the bigs on the guards, and we attacked and made passes and we made shots or drove and found somebody under the rim. No, not really.  I didn't think of it like that.  We just kept playing the game and read and react. I mean, just like just going through the season, having our ups and downs, our experiences as a team, having bad streaks of losing or winning, just within our huddle.  We just take those experiences and keep moving and learn from them and just all talk to each other, really, and just keep our mindset on one goal. I'm really not sure.  I guess you really would have to ask somebody on the street or one of our fans.  I'm pretty sure it's a long time waiting.  They're going to be excited.  I mean, they're already excited just as us just being here for the first time.  They're going crazy after the Eastern Conference Finals and -- I don't know, there's no telling.  You got to ask probably, like I said, a fan or somebody that's in Canada, been living in Canada for a while.  But I know they're going to be super excited.  I don't know.  We'll see. I mean, I've never been one of those guys that growing up in high school getting all the media and the college media, so I don't really think my legacy is going to ever reach the potentials of Michael Jordan and how the media followed them since they were a rookie. But as far as me just -- I just want to play and just let people remember that I played hard at both ends of the floor, I was a winner, and that's basically it.  I'm just here enjoying my dream, having fun.  I mean, legacy is going to be opinionated by each person, but I'm just playing right about myself really and what I feel, what makes me happy. It really doesn't matter.  I didn't make a decision off the media or what people thought of me.  Like I said, I made it off my own personal views and what I seen and how I felt as a person to make myself happy. Just wanting to do it, I guess.  Moving his feet, contesting shots, wanting to play defense.  Quick feet, like I said.  That's what makes you a good defender, just wanting to be able to do it, locking into your opponent and wanting to make a stop. Yeah, for sure.  Obviously the skill comes into play, like I said, having quick feet, able to read shots, contesting. I mean, it's the same mindset.  If we didn't feel like we could be here, we wouldn't be here right now.  Simple as that.  I have the same confidence.  You can't let losses or wins affect that.  It's about what you think and feel that's in your body, your inner thoughts and you know what you portray to your team and what your team is telling you and what we all feel.  And that's why we are here, we have confidence. I mean, it would be very important.  I mean, it would be a third win, and you need four to win.  You already know how important that is.  It's 3-1. He's done a great job.  We're in The Finals his first year, I mean, what else could you expect or want from a first-year coach other than a championship?  I think he handled himself well.  I really don't know what people are portraying of him.  I don't read the media or see what you guys are saying about him, so -- but I think he's been doing a great job. Just competitive nature.  He's able to change schemes quickly, adjust.  But it's tough to compare somebody that's been coaching for 20 years and this is his first year in the NBA, even though he coached, been a head coach in other levels.  So, I mean, it's just hard to compare that.  It's like a rookie, you compare him to a 15-year veteran, that's a Hall of Fame vet, you know. I mean, it doesn't matter.  As long as we win, I don't even -- I didn't even know that.  Like I said, it's not about me.  I'm not here to play hero basketball.  If there's two or three guys on me, I'm going to make sure somebody gets the ball and they're going to knock down a shot. Obviously it is the Finals, so it's probably a little bit more attention on me on the Warriors' side and not letting Kawhi get going and make his teammates beat us. But other than that, whatever shot attempts that I get, you just got to make them and see where it goes from there.  Can't be hero basketball.  Just because people want to see me beat these records or want me to score 30 points does not mean I have to do that.  I have to go out there and try to win a basketball game, either that's shots being limited on the offensive end and I'm going in playing harder on the defensive end, trying to get us five more shots for somebody else. The league will figure that out.  Kyle handled it great.  He kept playing.  I think he told the referee what happened.  He probably thought about it five seconds and then got back to the game, which is important, not taking any possessions off reminiscing on what a fan did or an owner. That's how it is.  These fans are coming out watching the game, they feel like they're on the team.  They're competitive as well, probably a little bit under the influence, and things like that happen.  This isn't the first time we have seen something like that. We have to do a better job, the NBA, just of making sure these fans don't come in and think they can just touch guys and hit them.  That's a little extreme.  All the name calling and things like that is okay, other than disrespecting your family, talking about us, but other than putting your hands on someone, that's disrespectful. It feels good.  I don't think about what happened two years ago, pretty much living in the now and just happy we were able to get a Game 3 win, another step closer to our goal. I think we all kind of followed that advice, but it's just easier to look at that now and say it worked great for us, especially on a great shooting night. But it's been a while since the whole playoff series.  We haven't really had a good team shooting night, and I knew eventually at some point we were due for one.  So luckily we got one tonight, but we still have to do a better job defensively on that end of the floor to limit those guys better so we don't have to rely on our offense or our shooting to win games for us. But luckily it did tonight, and hopefully next game we can continue to stay warm and let it rip and hopefully play even better defense. He's a pure shooter.  I don't know if you guys knew that or not (laughter). Yeah, I spoke to him before the game briefly.  He's always on the TNT set.  He was out there right before the game.  And every time I see him, he's giving me his pure shooting advice, because he was good at it. And but just the fundamentals, the small things, telling me to be confident and just hold the follow-through.  And obviously after a good shooting night, it's easy to see that his advice has worked.  But he always just yells to me, Leave it.  And that's his way of saying leave your hand up there, hold your follow-through and be confident in your shot. But he's always been that guy to me everywhere or every year that we get on the playoffs or on this stage where he comes over and tells me stay confident and give me his shooting advice. I'll take this one since he answers probably a ton of them.  But our fans have been amazing for us throughout the whole season.  And in the playoffs especially.  The first two games they did a great job.  We didn't hold our end up in Game 2.  But we had to come back home hopefully keeping them proud, or make them proud.  And hopefully upping the series would be great. But all around the world there's Canadian fans surprisingly.  That's one thing I learned being on this team, a lot of Canada is all over, and it's kind of close.  People from Vancouver may drive down.  But Raptors fans are crazy, man.  They're all over the place and they come from all over the place to watch the games and to support us. We know how big of a stage and how big of an accomplishment it is just us getting here, but we know the job's not done and we want to continue to make them proud and hopefully give them their first title. It was very important, but I really didn't find out until the tip-off started.  They told us that he was playing tonight, and that was the mindset going out on the floor that's playing.  And it was a lot of pressure, it's a lot of pressure, too, if one of the main guys is not playing, they can still come out and get a win.  Steph played great tonight.  But it was big.  I'm happy we got it.  Two wins away now and let's see what this momentum carries us to. I used to say that back when I was in high school and college.  Just wanting to get to this league, just -- it's about working hard, basically, outworking the opponent.  Rebounds help you win games, big rebounds, offensive rebounds, limiting the team to one shot.  And that used to be our motto, just some of us that were in college that was trying to get to this point.  I forgot your first two questions. Once I'm driving in the paint, kicking out to guys that are making shots, the defense doesn't want to collapse as easy, and we just got to keep playing them in a flow, really.  I feel like we just don't need to worry about me scoring the basketball, we all can score with the offense that we have, just got to keep moving.  At times when I do have the ball, the offense gets real stagnant and we just stay in one spot, and that's so easy to guard if you're defending us.  So it's about just moving the ball, playing the team sport and trusting everyone. Oh, I wouldn't say hot, but I was comfortable.  We had a good rhythm.  We had a good flow, we had a good couple stops to where we can run and get our transition or where we get some good uncontested looks.  We had a few good looks, and they fell for me. I still felt like there was a couple of opportunities that I had missed that if I was hot I usually would have made it.  I had a couple of good looks after that, and maybe it was due to fatigue, but guys played hard, guys made shots, we did the little things, and at the end of the day, like he said, the board man, it's blue collar team, and these guys did all the little things we needed to do to get a win.  Obviously making shots helps, but rebounding, blocks shots, Serge was amazing at running back, sprinting back.  Guys were amazing rebounding.  Pascal, Marc had timely buckets for us and timely rebounds for us. Huge.  All year that's why I love playing with the guy so much, because he's a big reason why I get so many look, him and Pascal.  Them being -- him being the quarterback and Pascal being the wide receiver and he throwing that ball ahead and the defense collapse, it's kick out open looks for me.  And when he's -- Kawhi obviously penetrating, attacking the basket transition, they collapse, there's some good looks for us.  And in the half court set, it's a little easier to guard that and matchup. But K-Lo's a huge I guess part of our pace and that's why he's so -- that's why he gets paid the big buck, man.  He does the little things for us, even when he's not scoring.  Tonight he scored well, but the biggest thing that he brings for us is that edge.  He's a bulldog.  He's a pit bull down there and he's going take charges, he's going to get rebounds, he's going to box people out, he's going to do the dirty work, he's a blue collar guy, and he's going to give us pace. So as much as people like to get on him about not shooting well or not scoring, that's not really his job.  We don't need him to score as much with the guys we have here, with Kawhi, Pascal, Fred, myself on the perimeter being able to shoot some, so and if he does score it's a plus for us. But it would be great to have everybody continue to keep scoring, make it easy for us, but defensively we have to be better. Thanks, guys. At that time you're just listening to the coach and trying to win the game.  So, well, myself, I will just speak for myself, I just went out there and tried to execute.  At times coming back in transition on the floor we forgot that we were in it, but we just kind of talked it out and still got into our locations. Probably not.  Klay definitely wasn't on the floor at that time.  There's no telling when KD's going to come back either.  So I don't think it will work. I mean, it happened a long time ago.  It's probably you guys are just finding out.  But it's not a big worry of mine. I guess a guy that thinks outside the box.  He coached at a lot of different levels, seen a lot of different games, coached a lot of NBA games.  I really can't remember right now just on the spot of what he has done, but that's just how he is.  He is experimental, and a lot of times what he draws up on the board works. Right now, it's a possible five games left and about 12 days.  If you can't run, then you're not going to be able to play.  That's how you pretty much measure things at this time.  That's all I could really say.  If you can't run, you definitely cannot play.  Just see how it goes in the first quarter.  Did it get worse or not?  You might be able to start the game off running, but then you might not be able to finish as good as you started just from fatigue and whatever is bothering you at that time. A hundred percent.  I'm on the floor.  There are no excuses.  Everybody knows everyone's banged up, bruised up at this moment. Pretty much, you heard it before, coming into the season I wasn't feeling healthy.  Still was trying to get back to my old self.  They saw it.  They felt that seeing pictures of my body.  We pretty much just laid out the schedule and went from there.  Just pretty much laid out a schedule, went game by game, see did things get worse or get better and then just keep attacking each day. I think it just comes natural, just by all NBA players.  There are just so much distractions from you playing in high school to college and now becoming a pro.  So it's probably just pretty much second nature at this point.  And like I said, I know about this way before even the playoffs started, so it's nothing new to me. It's fun.  Been knowing Klay for a long time, just living in California.  I just go out and play still.  I'm not just playing against him at the moment.  They switch a lot.  They're a great defensive team, and just try to take the challenge. It's just like me and anybody walking outside or whoever, whatever person you're talking to, everyone is different.  They're going to see the world different, life different.  That's pretty much how it is.  From going from one place to another, it's totally different people. Thank you, Kawhi. I mean, you pretty much summed it up right there.  We ended up trapping Curry, I was playing 2, he ended up passing to Livingston, almost got a steal, and then I mean, I really didn't see where Iggy came from.  He came up, Livingston found him and he knocked down a shot, a big shot. No, we wanted to see it in our hands.  No, we wanted to get a steal. Just coming in as one, you know what I mean.  Obviously on somebody else's home floor, they got the sixth man with the crowd, but just have to buy into ourselves and come out hard, strong, no mistake, no turnovers, and same thing you got to do at home. I mean, I never thought of it, really, but I guess it feels good, but it's not over yet.  Still basketball, no matter what jersey you got on.  And that's what I'm trying to do, just lead and win games. Oh, I feel like in that third quarter, we didn't score the ball in like the first five minutes, four and a half minutes, obviously led to them getting out in transition early and a lot of layups and open looks, and that was pretty much the game right there.  Went on like a 15, 18-0 run, I believe, and you can't do that with a championship team on the other side. I mean, I can't say that.  I mean, I feel like our pace was good early, it was just that third quarter, I feel like it just really killed us.  18-0 run, if we can't score no baskets, you're not going to win no game. Not really.  I mean, we still got to go out and make shots and guard guys that's out there.  Everybody's in the NBA, these guys have a high basketball IQ.  I mean, obviously them missing Durant it's a big loss for them, but I mean they won the game tonight. Obviously just take it one game at a time.  Finals is not going to be easy.  The only thing that matters is the four.  Four wins.  Once you get it, two wins, three wings, it does not matter.  Just take one game at a time and just play through the adversity. It's big respect for them, they have been here the last four years, won the last two, and I mean you got to just take the challenge.  Great basketball team, you got to go out there and accept the challenge and want to fight and win. Thank you, Kawhi. I appreciate them for their support.  Coming in, I wanted to be able to contribute to the team and be able to get them to this point, and we're doing it so far.  I just feel like I did something special for them, just this group, just being able to be the first team to get to the NBA Finals for Toronto.  that's how fans are.  Everyone out here they love, not just me.  If you walk through the city or if I'm with one of my teammates, they show them a lot of love as well.  it's a great support group out here with the fans and with everyone in Toronto. In game?  Obviously, you have to ask him that question.  Obviously, I feel like he works on that every day.  He's one of the greatest shooters I've ever seen. relocating, finding your spot on the floor and getting to it.  He plays with some talented players, smart players that know how to give him the ball in his spots.  He's a crafty player.  He's been here before.  I feel like that's what makes him who he is. What I like to do is not try to relax.  Stay locked in on him.  Chase him as hard as you can.  Put a hand up and see where it goes from there.  That's pretty much it. I come into the game just trying to win.  If I have my mindset on just trying to score the ball, yeah, it could be difficult.  But I'm trying to make the right play out there, and obviously if there are two people on me, somebody is open.  I could create a collapse situation. It's really not about me.  If they play defense like that, guys are going to step up and make shots.  All I could do is keep making the right play.  When I do get a free look, make my shots and go back on other end and play defense.  It's just not about me scoring or trying to get my offense off.  It's a whole collective group out there playing basketball. Pretty much the group film with the whole team.  We're listening to the coaches.  Also whoever has feedback -- me, Kyle, whoever, Norm, Freddie, Serge.  Whoever has feedback we're listening and preparing for the next game and seeing what we can do better collectively.  From there, just try to watch the game myself, see what positions helped us on both ends of the floor and see what didn't work for us and try to make those mistakes better. Probably out of everybody who I talk to about film, the most is Kyle.  Me and him will watch film or talk to each other, see what we are seeing on the floor, either for ourselves or positions to make our teammates better. Probably just growing up playing basketball.  That's all could I say.  Just being in those experiences like you named.  Going through that whole season.  Coming right in as a rookie probably helped me just guarding the best player every night.  Always wanting to win.  Learning from the great teammates that I had then, from Tim [Duncan], Tony [Parker] and Manu [Ginobili].  Seeing how they approached the game -- every game, win, lose, missing a shot, game-winning shot, making a bad mistake.  I guess just growing up, being in these moments before.  If you're playing a championship game in high school, you kind of get the same feeling. I just try to take my experiences and just keep moving forward and just have fun.  Like I said, just basketball at this point.  Win, lose or draw, I'm still going to be living, still got a family.  This is all for fun. It really doesn't happen too much.  I really can't say it happens. I don't think everybody does.  I think it's more paid attention to when I do something good.  The camera will go to me or see what I'm doing at that exact moment.  But when I watch games from past, from Kobe or Shaq or Mike, they always didn't just go nuts.  They made big shots and sometimes they pump their fist and walk back to the bench.  So I just think because I really don't do it a lot, a whole lot, like everybody else does. But for me, it's just the way I play.  Until we win the game or it's all done, then I'll show some emotion.  But I want to stay even-keeled while I'm going through it. I'm not sure.  I don't think about what they're thinking. He's been great.  He's a good rim protector.  He's been guarding everybody in the post for us.  In our first series, he guarded [Nikola] Vucevic.  Then guarding [Joel] Embiid in the second series, he did a great job defensively.  Just another smart player on the floor that's been through the ups and downs of the NBA.  Veteran guy who is just ready for the moment.  Him being able to orchestrate the offense at the top of the key, able to shoot the three, it helps everybody.  He's just playing well on both ends of the floor. Pretty much other than my first year, I just pretty much started having fun.  When you come in as a rookie, you're trying to stay in the league and you don't know what the league is about or if you're going to stick.  After that, I pretty much been have been trying to enjoy the game.  Obviously, it's a lot more fun when you're getting plays called for you and you're able to live your childhood dream in being able to shoot the ball 20 times a game.  The offense is coming toward you rather than just being out there doing one job.  Because when you first come in as a rookie, unless you're like a top-10 player, you're really not going to touch the floor a whole lot or get the offense run through you. That kind of throws you off, or for me just like puts you in a box somewhat.  You have to figure out a way to have fun.  Like I said, being a child, I didn't envision myself just being in a box in the NBA.  But once that time comes, I feel like you're just having more fun and you're able to experience the game and grow as a player, making plays, seeing double teams and finding other guys.  It just gets more fun.  You're able to do a lot more. I feel like I made some big shots in my career before.  I mean, obviously not like the ones now, but it's been fun.  I can't complain about my career.  I had a great time each step of the way.  I had fun with my whole journey. Thank you, Kawhi. I mean, they did a good job both halves blitzing my pick-and-rolls, keep the third guy in the bag, not letting me play one-on-one, really tuned in their defense.  That's pretty much it, just not letting me get no easy looks, bringing two to the ball, and if I get by, that third guy is coming. My teammates played well tonight.  So I mean, it's a team game.  If they're going to play like that, then guys are going to play well, get wide-open shots. No, I mean, we don't have conversations like that.  We know that they're human, they're a great basketball team, talented players, high-basketball-IQ players.  You just got to go out there and compete, take the challenge.  We know they're going to make big shots, go on runs, and it's about just keeping your composure and keep fighting through, don't put your head down when Steph or Klay make big threes, just keep playing. He played well on both ends of the floor.  He got to the paint, he knocked down his shots, his wide-open shots tonight, he was aggressive on both end of the floor.  He got his hands, deflections on a lot of basketballs tonight.  Big blocked shots, big buckets, he played well. I mean, just keep being aggressive.  We played teams through out this playoffs that's playing similar defense, and I guess just learning from the experiences and guys being ready and just keep being aggressive, and make sure I make the right play and don't try to be a hero out there.  Just play basketball, that's all I do. Like I said, don't get too down.  They're a great basketball team.  Just keep fighting, keep striving, don't give up and just have a confidence, self-confidence in yourself that you're going to win the game.  I mean, that's all can you do, lay it out on the floor and see what happens. He doesn't need no prep talks.  He's going out there doing it.  He's not a guy that's shying away.  He's very aggressive when's on the floor and I mean, when we talk it's a group effort, you know what I mean?  And hopefully everybody hears it and brings it to the game, takes the knowledge that we all put in our knowledge and experience from past times and that is all we can do.  It's a team basketball game. For sure.  I mean, whenever he does play or say he's going to be playing, we're definitely going to have to prep for him.  He's another guy that could just score 30 points in his sleep, and I mean, everybody knows who he is and for sure we're going to have to prep for him. Just anxiousness, wanting to get to the game and play.  When I was young my first Finals, 20, probably second year in the league, and not knowing really what to expect.  But after that, going into my second one, you pretty much know what to expect, and we were playing the same team.  It's just the same basketball game.  It's five-on-five.  It's still two hoops.  So you just go out there and play hard and live with the results. Yeah, now you get to see how it is every day for 41 games.  Before you would come, you know that their crowd does come out when you're playing here on the road. But also I was in the West, so I only played them once a year.  Like I said, now I'm here for 41 games during the regular season and you get to live in a city, see guys or girls wearing hats, jerseys, how much support is really around the city.  Now in the Playoffs you get to see everybody outside the arena and seeing how excited they are for the game and how much support is there, too. It's been an exciting year.  That's what pretty much changed for me, just being able to see it visually and, like I said, I'm in and out during the regular season. I think he should feel that way about himself.  You have to come into these games confident and know what can you do on the floor.  I don't know how to just compare myself against him.  I don't really do that.  Just for myself and what I bring to the game, I guess we both can switch one through four, one through five on the floor.  Both bring energy to the game.  We want to play defense.  We want to stop the player in front of us.  And that's pretty much it.  He's leading them on that end of the floor as well. The thing that helps me is we might get a steal, help my team get an easy look in transition or being able to play defense, we limit them to one shot, probably get a rebound, come down on offense again with some pace, I guess that helps.  I mean, but it's two different sides of basketball.  It's not like just because I get a stop, I'm going to make a shot or do a good move. Not really.  I never really thought of it that way, but maybe.  There are good offensive players that are not good defensive players and there are the other way around -- good defense, not good offense.  So I think it just really comes to being smart and just being in those situations before and just knowing what's going to happen, going through years of playing and seeing defensive schemes or offensive schemes and watching film and seeing how they guarded other guys or me in the past. No, I'm not playing the game for that reason.  I'm playing to have fun and try to be the best player I can be.  I'm happy with myself and what I have done in my career and I'm just going to keep on from there.  It's not about me being famous or want to have more fame than those guys.  It's about me playing basketball and having fun on the floor. Yeah, going to the Eastern Finals on this team, and as each series goes, you get more media or asked more questions about what's going on.  But I think once this is over, it's still between the lines.  You're playing five-on-five.  We're still playing basketball.  We have a scheme.  Just focus on that and don't focus on the outside attention.  We know what we need to do here inside this locker room every day, so don't pay attention to people who are not in your locker room. It was a momentum kind of capper.  We kind of were on a run, and why not feed the big dog.  Let the big dog eat.  I'm always going to look for the guy that I know can finish with the best of them.  That's what he did.  He finished with the best of them right there. It was great.  Like Kyle said, we were on a run, and the building exploded after that dunk.  Kind of got us a little bit more adrenaline to get another stop.  I've been playing with him for a while now, and it's just chemistry right there. I know just to keep running with Kyle.  If he doesn't have nothing easy, he's going to make the right play, like he said. It means a lot.  It's taken a long time to get here in my career, 13 years, seven years here.  I've run into one guy for a while.  We were given the opportunity -- he left -- and we beat a really good team in Milwaukee.  For me, I'm going to savor the moment, but I'm not satisfied.  Our goal is to win the NBA championship. We're just going to keep getting better and plugging away. He was pretty composed.  Like I told Ernie [Johnson] out there, we were down about, I think, 15 points, 13 points in that third quarter with about six minutes left.  He told us that we were just here last game and to keep fighting, keep striving, one possession at a time.  We all felt like we were still in the game.  We had a little bit of momentum left.  We just talked amongst each other once again, and just said, Let's go out here and enjoy it, and we can play better offense and defense.  We ended up doing that, and we ended up winning the game. It's great.  I worked so hard to get to this point with the season I had last year, just always betting on myself and knowing what I feel and what's right for me.  I ended up coming here with a great group of guys, a lot of talent.  And I just strived with them every day.  I just kind of bought into their system.  Kyle helped me a lot with my transition, on the court and off the court, asking him questions, him just pushing me on the floor as well and letting me know what to do in situations when he calls plays.  All that hard work just put together; now we're here and it's exciting. I don't really judge my game like that.  I'm more of a team aspect, see what my team is doing.  I just want to win.  I don't care about being the best player.  I want to be the best team.  I've always said that.  Just before the season when we made the trade, Masai felt that way about me.  He told me how he felt and why he made the trade.  It's turning out well now.  We're in the Finals, and we're not done yet. The one thing about Kawhi, and you guys all know it, is he literally stays level-headed all the time.  He never gets up, he never gets down.  He showed some emotion after Game 7 against the Sixers.  But I think him and Danny [Green] brought that championship pedigree here, just kind of staying level-headed and even-keeled.  Then you've got Marc Gasol coming in, another veteran that's been in the league a long time. We just had a bunch of guys that this whole season we've played through injuries and played through this and that.  This year, Kawhi coming off the year he had last year.  We did a good job of his load management.  The staff did a great job of that. We just played hard and stayed the course.  Nick Nurse did a good job of setting the tone early in the year.  You knew we were working for April, May and June.  And now we'll start June. I think we just went out there and did our job.  I think we just go out there and play extremely hard.  We've got great fans.  They support us through the good times and the bad times.  Right now is a great time, and we're glad that they're our fans. They got out in transition, got some easy looks, getting to the rim, fouled a little bit too much, and ended up giving them a 32-point quarter.  And we were able to stay locked in, engaged into the game, into our game plan, and ended up having a better defensive second quarter. Just got to give credit to my teammates.  They knocked down shots tonight when I gave it to them, and I'm not a guy that really controls the ball the whole game.  Pretty much play off the ball, and just try to give other people opportunities, just not try to be like a dominant ball player. Just being ourselves, take pride in the match-ups that presents us.  We want to be a good defensive team.  That's what we look at in film and everybody comments or has something to say that's knowledgeable to try to make our defense better, and we go into the game and try to execute it as best we can. Pretty much try to stay with a consistent mindset throughout the whole game.  Just trying to read the defense throughout the entire game, see what's working, and like you said, he told me tonight, go get it, and I'm not afraid of the moment.  I enjoy it, and this was our workout for the summer.  You've just got to go out and shoot the ball, I guess.  That's my mindset.  Get to a spot, try to help my teammates win the game.  Just trying to win, either if it's me scoring points or getting my teammates wide open looks, just out there trying to win.  It's not really matter about me scoring, it's just about being aggressive and don't shy away from anything. Yeah, I mean, experience helps a lot.  You know, just from my input, I've been here before.  I've been to The Finals, and it's pretty much nothing new that I'm seeing out there.  You've just got to have fun with it and enjoy it.  Like I told them tonight, we were down 10, I told them to enjoy the moment and embrace it, and let's have fun and love it.  This is why we're here. It's a great opportunity.  You know, like I said, this is what you work out for in the summer is to win basketball games.  Same mindset I've been having throughout the Playoffs, just come in, have fun, try to execute the best I can and play confident, and whatever happens after that is what happens.  I know that I put the work in.  I can live with the results because I'm having fun and I'm putting my all out on the floor. I mean, I'm just living in the moment.  That's where you guys try to describe and make fun out of.  I'm in the moment right now. A couple key turnovers.  Missed some easy layups, some wide-open threes. And we didn't play too well on defense.  They ended up scoring the highest quarter points in the fourth, 32 points.  And offensive rebounds.  That pretty much sums it up. Yeah.  We came out with a good first quarter, and after that, they pretty much outscored us every quarter.  Just better defense.  Hopefully we can make some of our open looks.  We had a lot of clean looks in that second half.  We've got to limit them.  They can't have this many offensive rebounds, especially at home. I mean, it could be, but it's no excuses.  We're all out on the floor.  Like I said, we had open looks that we could have made.  We started off the game well.  We just didn't finish it up too great. That's the first time I've heard that.  Pretty much everybody congratulated me and the team just on the win.  But no, I don't know yet like the ripple effect of it. Just very active.  They play together on both ends, a long team.  They're coached well, and they want to play defense.  That's what you want out of players, and they're out there doing it. She just asked that question.  I don't know.  I mean, I'm pretty sure everybody is excited just for us moving to the next round.  But I'm not sure. No.  When I say people, either from going out to eat dinner or family, friends.  I talk to the same people.  There's nobody new or special that's going to come in.  So pretty much just my close ones. I mean, I don't think so.  I mean, I think you've just got to go out just like it's another road game, either it's Game 3 or 4.  These first two games are on the road, so we just have to go out there and play basketball, treat it like a road game, and that's pretty much it. I mean, I don't think nobody really goes in feeling a certain way about it.  They just want to go in and win a game. I mean, obviously, but it's not about us going head-to-head, it's about us trying to win the game.  You can't get caught up in people's expectations.  You've got to worry about self-expectations, team expectations, and that's winning, and that's what we have to focus on.  It doesn't matter about the one-on-one match-up.  This game isn't a one-on-one basketball game. Just like we do.  Just come in, be focused, make sure we know our game plan, show length, compete every possession, and try to limit them to one shot. I mean, they help each other well.  I feel like they're a good defensive team at helping and showing length, showing bodies on whoever gets to the paint or gets to the lane.  You know, that's what helped them.  They're on the same page.  But it's a totally different team, different players, different coaches.  But just try to go into the game and just play our game, be aggressive, and then see what the challenges are and see what their game plan is and then go from there. Yeah, I just said that.  Regular season, Playoff games, whatever game you go into, it's an experience.  There's something that you can take away just from your mistakes or what worked well for you or what worked well for the team, and you try to just think about that and go in and see if that's going to be the better outcome for that game. Not really.  When you have your mind focused on one thing and that's winning a game, then it's just time to shift over from there.  That's why you've got to stay even keel in this league.  You don't get too low or too high until it's all done.  That's what I try to pride myself on, just staying level headed and going into the next game. I've said it before, just probably from past experiences, playing basketball, being in these situations before, and just learning from it.  You know, I was fortunate enough to play for winning teams when I got into the NBA.  Just being my rookie year playing in the semifinals and going from there year after year, I feel like it helped. It's really not asked like that.  It's pretty much the situations of how many games did you all play, what was it like being in these situations or how many times have you played in Game 7s, things like that.  But just trying to give them my experience.  It's just showing them what I've been through or what it did take.  That's it really, you're just trying to share experience and then try to take it into the game, see what's going on and see if they learn from it, and that's it.  That's all you can do. You're talking about in training camp? I mean, I wasn't sure.  I mean, as we -- when you first walk on the floor, I was trying to be healthy myself, so I wasn't there yet.  So it took like a training camp to get through it. But they were a good team last year, so with the addition of me and Danny coming over, I feel like they didn't take a step back.  The sky was the limit.  As the season went on, I started seeing how guys' roles were and what guys like to do on the floor and how it was contributing into wins, and just went from there. I really didn't think about it.  I knew we all had a goal to get to The Finals, winning.  That's what we did, take it game by game, day by day. You know, everybody being on the same page, being locked in.  Everybody wanting to win, everybody playing with each other on both ends of the floor, and like I said, just not getting so up or down on yourself. You've got to stay even keel because the game isn't going to go how you want it to go at all.  So you've just got to be ready for the moment, those moments when they're high and low and just working hard, just working hard, just keep competing possession after possession. I don't really have a favorite player to guard.  I guess somebody on the bench who doesn't play.  It's easier to guard them. He brought a lot to the game.  He helped me out a lot.  You know, just coming in as a rookie, seeing how he works, how he approaches every game, and I was just blessed to be a part of a championship run with him.  It was amazing just to learn from him every day. Like you said, it's only 24 players that are able to play.  They usually choose like three players from a team that's No. 1, or just going down the line of star power, just who's hyped up in the media.  I mean, everybody deserves their opportunity to be here. I'm just happy that I'm able to get to this point still after dealing with a long injury.  Just a stepping stone to my career and something that I could look back on and know that I put in a lot of time and effort, and I was able to get an accomplishment done. There will be soon.  Me and New Balance are working on something now.  Just test trials for me to wear, see if the fans like it. The outcome of the video was great.  It portrays who I am as a player.  Working with New Balance, it's great because they want me to be myself.  They want me to be me.  That's all you can ask for. I don't know.  I don't rank myself.  I'm just happy with the position we are in as a team and something to look forward to and the goal we're trying to accomplish.  I've just got to be the best version of what this team needs.  I think I'm doing a good job at doing that. It's getting better.  Just got to keep waiting day-to-day. I've been at practice, just watching and things.  But just a lot of treatment. Just day-to-day, really, see how it feels tomorrow. A lot of input.  If I feel good, I'm going to play. Just being able to get my ankle healthy for my team and being ready to play. No. I'm not sure.  I mean, it's still not ready, but I mean, it's just questionable for tomorrow.  I could be feeling way better.  So we'll see tomorrow. She just asked that question. I'm just focused on getting healthy and getting ready to play for Game 3.  I'm not worried about that. It's frustrating.  You work all year to get to this point and not being able to help the team win a game or just being able to play is all very frustrating. Just seeing if I can run and at least be myself on the court.  Don't want to hobble around and shoot off-balance shots.  Just want to be able to push with both legs.  So, just that, really. Definitely.  But I mean, we're eight games away from the ultimate goal.  So, you know, that's just my mindset at the moment.  Just trying to get better. No.  If I'm going to be like that, then that means I'm hurt and I shouldn't be playing.  It's just a mental mindset of going out there and just preparing myself to win the game, really. Our offense was a little stagnant at times.  Defense wasn't there.  They also got a lot of rebounds.  I mean, obviously their guys played great, but it's stuff that we can do to help ourselves either win a game or even make it close. The people that didn't play? I mean, I really never thought of it that way, but those guys are playing amazing basketball out there.  They're carrying their teams every night.  I mean, it's just fun to watch them. I don't get too concerned about it.  I don't read the articles or watch what's going on.  I'm just focusing on the Spurs and myself and seeing what I can do to help position us for a playoff run. Those guys.  I mean, they carry their team every night, winning games, giving something the fans want to see.  I just think that's it.  It's precision in what you're doing every night. No, I think we're doing good right now.  It's all about team chemistry.  You've always got to figure out the best way for you and your team, but I think we're doing a good job right now.  You can talk to the front office and see what they're doing, but right now I feel like we're doing good. Good player.  Brings it every night in every aspect for his team, rebounding, points, passing.  Just the whole focal point for that team.  He's long, athletic.  This dude does everything on the floor. That's not for me to know, not for me to answer.  It's for the coaches and players and media to figure that out. I just go with what's on the schedule.  Whatever helps everybody to be happy. Just we're posting up a lot more since we got LaMarcus [Aldridge], so we have to adjust.  He's a great player down there and he's making plays for us out of the post.  And I think our defense will be better this year. Obviously probably Steph [Curry], Chris Paul, (inaudible). Nothing really, no advice.  Just go out, have fun, enjoy your family and time off and get ready for the game. He's probably having a great time with his family and friends.  I don't know.  I hope he's having a good time, as well, too. Manu's great for us.  He's a great leader, very smart, still effective to score the ball, passes very well.  For me just passing down his knowledge from what plays to see or being on the defensive end what to expect from the team.  So he's very helpful. Yeah, I mean, it comes with it.  As you start playing well, then your team plays well, and you start to get more attention. As far as the events and everything?  The game, that's what I really -- growing up, I watched the game, the actual All-Star Game. It felt good just being able to be acknowledged by all the fans around the world, and being able to get voted in was exciting. I don't know yet.  We're still working through the season.  We're going to figure it out if we go to the playoffs. Definitely, especially guarding the top (indiscernible).  I mean, it's something that we're used to doing (indiscernible). I just train more and have the mindset.   At the moment, I was just happy.Just had faith throughout the whole game, but I didn't think at all I was about to win the MVP of the Finals.    She was just happy for me.Just a lot of screaming and yelling.But she was just happy.Like everybody is just living in the moment right now.Really don't know what's going on.    Not yet.I mean, we're still just celebrating this win.I really don't remember.I don't think I watched the Finals when I was 7 years old.Probably just busy playing kid games, running around.    Just more focus and having guys that have been there like me and Danny, and a couple of other guys.It was our first Finals appearance last year, and I just felt like us having that experience and going through that loss pushed us even harder this year.    What did he say, tell us to say hungry?    Just being focused.Wanting to win, preparing themselves right.He played a great series also.He was rebounding the ball and passing very well.    Like I said, we pretty much had the same team last year.We knew where we got to, and there was no choice but to accept our role, and we did.We worked out our role every day throughout the 82‑game season, and here we are.    It is a very special meaning for me knowing that he's gone and I was able to win a championship on Father's Day.But, I mean, I'm just happy just winning the championship.Like I told you all, my dad died six years ago, and I really wasn't thinking about him that much.    I really struggled in Game 2.We won Game 1.Shot the ball pretty well, but, I mean, he just wanted me to go out and be aggressive, have fun and play the game. It was just up to myself to dig down deep and go through adversity.    It just feels like a dream to me.But like you said, this is my second Finals appearance in my third year.I've been just progressing each year and the team has also.Losing in the semifinals my first year, and losing the championship my second year, and now winning in my third year, it just makes you believe in your craft and your hard work.    No, I didn't.I mean, we fought hard.We knew how we could beat the Heat, and we just had to come in and just prepare ourselves from last year's loss.I felt like we watched a lot of film about the last year's series, and we came out and did everything right this year and that's how the outcome became.    No, I really never feel pressure.Everyday life is pressure.But I'm not thinking about that now.We just won today, and that's probably going to be later on in time if I start deciding or thinking about that.But right now I'm just celebrating the win.    Just coming here and seeing him prepare every day and having that drive and will to want to win at the age he is and after winning all the championships he's won before I got here just motivated me to go even harder because I'm young, and I couldn't really do it every day.Just seeing him at that age just inspired me.    Just wanting to win.I mean, LeBron did good in Game 3 and 4.He averaged about 30 points in the series.Just preparing and watching film with the team and seeing how we could stop them as a team and slow them down, that's how I prepared for the series.    It doesn't mean anything to me.Just try to go out and win the next game, and that's all I'm doing.    Just rotations, and trying to move the ball a little bit better.That's about it.Rotations on defense have to be better.    It feels the same for me as any game going into it.All I'm thinking about is playing.I'm not worried about what if we win or lose, and we just want to go out and play.    Yeah, but I just go in level headed and even keel.Like I said, I'm just focused on playing the game and trying to win.    He's a good guy.Takes care of players' bodies really well.He seems like he likes to learn a lot about his job, and it seems like he loves what he does.    No, I keep a small circle, so just the people that I usually talk to almost every day.    Probably high school or college.    I don't know.I've played so much basketball.I don't know.I got pretty close in college, I think, and in the NBA, also.But I don't remember.    The last couple games?    I came in during the lockout year, so I really didn't know my teammates well or the head coach, so I was learning on the fly in games.I didn't really know the players until about the end of the year.So just trying to find my spots on the floor and see, like you said, where I could fit in or where I could be aggressive at.    Most definitely.When I first got drafted by the Spurs, I knew who I was playing with and I knew what type of system they played.So I just knew I wasn't going to get the ball right away or just be a focal point with these great players on the team.But now I just try to play my game and go out there and be aggressive.    No, I mean, I was focused on both ends the first two games.I just got in some foul trouble.Wasn't really able to get into a rhythm, and Heat did a good job by playing aggressive on defense.I just made shots last minute.    Oh, I just like to play a complete, overall game, really.That's what I really try to do when I'm on the floor to help the team win.    I never really noticed.He was still scoring the ball and making good passes.But I just noticed when he came out of the game.    I just try to go out there and play the same game.If I'm not aggressive, then it stops my rhythm and my team needs me out there to be aggressive, not to just wonder around the floor.    I felt the pressure all year.I've been guarding the best player on the opposite team throughout the whole year.    I mean, like I just said, both ends of the floor, my guys are wanting me to be aggressive, and doesn't matter who is in front of me, I just have to play the same game and just play hard.    Yeah, I mean, we didn't shoot that many contested shots.A little bit more with our passing that we didn't do a good job with, but I don't think we really took any contested shots.I think we did a good job moving the ball.Â    I felt engaged in the minutes I did play in.Not really, I don't feel like the heat‑‑ are you talk about the air?    No, I don't feel like the heat took anything away from me besides just being hot.    Where do I rank myself?I don't know.I never thought about it.    We definitely did a good job.That's why these teams are in The Finals, but a lot of our turnovers was unforced.    No, I don't think so.The players that are used to wear it play with it every night.I'm not sure.    No, I don't wear sleeves or compression shorts.But I don't think anything would have made you more cooler in that gym.    I felt good.Same fatigue after any other game.Only played 20‑some minutes, so I probably didn't feel it as much as other guys playing in the high 30s.Â    Yeah, the second time around, but it's not going to be easy at all.It's going to be a very tough series.I have to make sure I play defense.    What's the hardest part?    Just being patient, just letting‑‑ just waiting for the game to come.    The team plays their style.I don't adjust anything.I just take what the defense gives me.I don't know how many‑‑ I never thought of it that way.Whoever plays me, I really don't feel no difference.I just feel the team, team‑wise you get around your guy, somebody is there to help or the team is in the passing lanes.It's not a one‑on‑one game.    Doesn't bother me.It's part of basketball.    Like I say, it's just that people are starting to know that I give my effort out there on the floor, on both ends and just finally starting to get noticed and that's what I pretty much feel about it.    No.No, I don't.I talk to my teammates and tell them "help side" or something like that, but not really a conversation trying to get in someone's head.    Just a better grasp of the Miami Heat.LeBron James is an elite player.Knowing his tendencies, it's still going to be hard to stop him.It's going to take more than that.It's going to take a team effort.    Just a little bit more experienced, smarter, and that's about it.    No, after summer I was focused on getting my knee healthy.    Yeah, a lot to be learned.Time makes you better and just going through the experience made everybody on the team better, that was there.Â    Just fouling him on his shots.He did a good job getting in people's bodies, making them over commit and getting to the line.    Just bringing more energy, really, and just a more‑aggressive nature.Just being there for one another for our shifts and just believing that the next teammate will be there for you.    Yeah, I mean, I feel like we did a good job of getting to the basket, but just overall, just got to put on a different mindset offensively and try to attack more or just try to get a shot, open look.    I mean, he helps the rim for the defensive end for him, changes shots, blocked shots yesterday, so just another body in the way.    I mean, I take what the defense gave me, but I got to the paint a few times yesterday.Shots just didn't really fall for me yesterday, but other than that it doesn't change my mindset.    No, not really.I mean, we've still got to go out and play the game.Before the series we said we didn't know if he was going to play or not, but we've just got to still buy into our game plan and still stay focused to what we're doing.    Just taking notice of when he has the ball, just having an extra shift available just in case he tries to drive the ball, and just being focused, really.I think that's about it.    Most definitely.They're going to come out hard.Like everybody has been saying, we were up 2‑0 two years ago, so this is a very important game, and we have to come out strong and have the same intensity as the Thunder.    No, we're just reminding each other that we were up 2‑0.We're going to try to come out Game 3 strong.    I really never felt pressure offensively.Like you said, we've got a lot of scorers, and our offense works that way.You never know who's going to have a great night.    So far just in my own mind when I come to the game I bring my team energy and get us going on the defensive end.    Just knowing our offense and just trying to do the best job I can do by anticipating passes and just getting my hands in the passing lane.    Yeah, being in the Playoffs my first two years definitely helped me just going out there and being comfortable and just playing the game like it's any other game.    I'm pleased with the win, but I feel like they still did a great job and scored the ball very well.    I mean, I had a lot of different players growing up.I really didn't look at that growing up when I was little, just really liked how they scored or did something with the ball.    Yeah, I liked Scottie Pippen's game, but I really didn't get a chance to really notice him and know what he was doing until he was on the Trail Blazers, I believe.    It's great.I mean, like I said, just his drive, being that old and playing his 17th year in the NBA and still wanting to be the best player on the floor, it's fantastic.It just motivates me.    Not now.I'm living in the moment.    No, not‑‑ I mean, his age isn't old, but 17 years in the NBA is a long time.That's what I'm saying.17th year and still wanting to be one of the best players on the floor is just insane.    My heart is just into the game.I'm just mentally preparing for Game 7.Just not thinking about it, I guess.Just preparing for Game 7.That's how you get over it.    No, not at all.    Just trying to get him out of the comfort zone.You know, just playing hard.Trying to contest his shot, making it hard for him out there.    He had been going down there the whole game.Probably went through and started really paying attention to it in the fourth because it was a critical situation.He's been doing it the whole game, the whole series.    Just being 21, being able to be here so young.Just about winning, how you can get here and the mistakes you can make.Just going to make me a better player as I move forward.    Not at all.I don't feel like that lost us the game.Like I said, we had chances to get rebounds, and we just didn't make it‑‑ get the rebounds.    I haven't really watched games the whole season.    I've been avoiding it the whole season.I don't watch SportsCenter.    They're a great team.They play great defense.They are causing us to turn over the ball.They get in passing lanes, making it difficult passes for us.But it's on us, too.We have to deliver the passes and be strong with the ball.    The Miami Heat is a different team.That's why they're in The Finals.Great defensive team, like I just said.Their rotations and how they play.They're doing a good job.    Not really.We haven't really done defensive trap drills on our offense.You should know how to play the game.Just got to take care of the ball, like I said, you see the good pass and you make it.    Just relax.Have personal time.    Like I said before, not try to give him nothing easy.Contesting him.Not try to give him open shots.    No.This team is coming up big each game.Shots are falling for each team game in and game out.(Indiscernible) playing great defense.That's leading to runs on the offensive end.    I believe so.    I'm not sure.You have to ask him.    No, I've been selected, I think, two series ago.But I mean, I'm not thinking about that right now.I'm in The Finals, that's all I'm worried about.    The Pacers didn't help me at all.They didn't help the Spurs.The Pacers versus the San Antonio Spurs.We don't work together.    I'm studying my team concepts and just buying into our game plan.That's all I'm doing.Playing hard.    I'm enjoying it.We're in The Finals.You know, we're playing basketball.Just going to get me better as a player.That's how I approach the game.I just go out there and give it my all so I can get better each and every day.    Whatever.It's the off‑court stuff.It not basketball.I don't really love doing it or anything like that.    Just the same.Buying in as a team to stop them and just get defensive stops.Just help each other out on the back side and just have a lot of shifts.    Say what?    How comfortable?I'm going to feel good tomorrow playing another game.Just another challenge to go out there and try to compete and win.    I mean, I don't know.I never tried to guard Tony and shut him down.But I guess it's difficult.He's been doing it all season.Nobody hasn't really stopped him.I guess it's a hard thing to do.    The push is basically it's The Finals.You did get one game, but just getting that one game doesn't mean you're going to win all your games at home.So you got to make sure you go into every game with the same mindset this is the only game you're going to play, and just compete your hardest.    It was short and quick.Just emphasizing some of the things we did bad, and we could play a lot better than what we did in the first game.    What do I expect?I don't know.He's going to come out aggressive and try to get a win and protect his home floor.He's going to do whatever it takes to get a win.    Pretty sure.Like I say, he's going to do whatever it takes to win the game.If it's making the extra pass or creating the extra shot for himself or just getting an extra step.    I don't know.He still had a great game, so just got to come out next game a little more focused and try to make it tough for him.    A little bit.We're just‑‑ it's a team thing really just to try to stop the Miami Heat.LeBron still had a good game, like I said, and myself I'm not going to be discouraged if he makes a shot.That's what he's been doing all season.    Just probably being quick with my feet and having just long hands and long arms.    I think I did all right.We won the game.But he still had a great game.Had a triple‑double.He found his teammates shots and he knocked down shots.    Not to me.He was still aggressive and was ready to play.He was getting rebounds on defense and making shots.    I don't know.When he gets a lot of assists, the team usually wins the game.I don't know.He had a good game.I still think he did.He passed the ball well.That's what he does for the team.I don't think we're going to accept that.    No, it felt the same as any other game.Our just competing and more focused in the game.It felt the same.It was five on five.    We're still going to watch tape.I don't watch TV much.I still want to see what he does on the floor and see what I can do to help defend him.    We really haven't talked much.They know what they're going to do and what I should do on the floor.Just really go out and compete.Play our hardest.Don't let nothing really get to you.Relax and play basketball.    No.    They probably had a different team game plan for him on defense.I'm going to be focused on what our game plan is.    Yeah.I would rather guard the best guy on the floor.I want to get better myself.Guarding him is going to make me a better player.I accept the challenge to go out there and play.    It meant a lot.I just knew that they seen me play a lot.They liked game I had.They wanted to see me develop as a player in the NBA (Indiscernible).    I don't know.I came in, didn't really know too much about the team.There was a lot I had to learn on the fly.It took me a lot of hard work and focus to get better (indiscernible).This is what I want to do, in The Finals and winning.That's what the coaches demand.They know what they want and how to get the players' ear.    I haven't seen it in the locker room.    It's just how the game plays out, really.If he's rolling, I guess we're going to keep giving him the ball.I don't think about it.I'm just out there playing, just playing basketball trying to win the game, and how the results come out, that's how they come out.As long as we win, I'm happy.    Just try to stay with him.He's a good scorer and he can pass the ball well, too, to the bigs they have on the team.Just try to stay close, try to contest his shots.    Like I said, I was just trying to make passing angles for him.He really can pass it, as well.I was in the passing lane so I got my fingertip on the ball and I was able to come out with a steal.    No, I don't track them.I'm just shooting the ball out there, just letting it go.    I'm happy to be here.I'm feeling good.I'm excited.  You make a basketball play. The things that I have talked about is don't do something in a game that I've never seen in practice. So if a basic two-hand chest pass is sufficient, that's what you want to do. But if you are running and you are in front of me and I can put it up and you get a guy as long and athletic as some of them are, then you put it up, and it looks good when it's completed.  So we've got a team that likes to get out and run. You can only do that if you guard and rebound the ball. And we've done a good job of that to allow ourselves to get out and run. I think when we've run, we've run with thoughtfulness. We've run with intelligence. We've run with a purpose.   Q. After looking at your tape, the tape against Temple, what do you think about Lavoy Allen and ways that you can make to stop him tomorrow? First team all-league, three times all-defensive league. He is very, very good. Big strong hands. He's a tough guard. He's not got the accolades for nothing.  So we'll work hard. We'll try to make him catch it where he's a little bit uncomfortable, then hope that he misses shots and try to keep him from getting second and third opportunities.   Q. Coach, how do you explain the way Billy's been playing maybe the last four or five games? What's he doing differently, what's he doing better? Billy has been absolutely sensational for a long stretch where he's had moments like that before. He had, I think, a 30-point-plus game against Gonzaga and he would come back with a lesser performance after that. I think Billy is -- I know Billy has become more active.  If you watch our game from Northern Colorado, Billy several times pursued the ball from long distance and got -- he got seven offensive rebounds. One of the things we talked to him about all season is he was too stationary. He would stand and watch and not allow the athleticism to come into play. But that's not the only thing. I think Billy has found a way to manage his emotions. He's an emotional guy. And that can be a help or hindrance. And he's turned it into a help.  We took him out in the Northern Colorado game. He had a couple of stretches where -- early, where he didn't play particularly well. And he came over shaking his head. And he said, What's wrong with me? I got to get my game together. I got to get my act together. And sat down and did just that. Rather than coming over and saying to somebody, Why is he taking me out? What did I do?  And I think so many things are controlled by, you know, the mental part of your game. So I'm hoping that he keeps it up. Whatever it is, that he is doing. I mean, he's played really, really well for an extended stretch for us now.   Q. Coach, in a perfect world what kind of tempo and pace would you like to see tomorrow in the game? Especially from you guys? Reggie, we're a team that likes to run. And yet, you know, we're not a team that's going to run for 40 minutes. We want to create some turnovers and run off of turnovers. Have you take maybe a little different shot than normal and run off of that.  I think at this level it's too hard to play, to grind it out for 40 minutes at nothing but half-court. That being said, Temple will not allow us to run for 40 minutes. And we won't allow Temple to run. So we're going to need to pick and choose. And then be able to run a half-court offense.  But we would like to have a pace to the game. And what that means for a score, I don't know. I know Temple doesn't give a lot of run-outs and easy baskets and they're hard to score on in half-court. So it will be a challenge for us.   Q. Coach, is there an opponent this year that maybe reminds you of Temple? Or is it maybe a situation where you look in the mirror almost to find a team that mirrors Temple? Hard for me to compare them to anyone else. They're a very good team. They can hurt you in so many different ways. If you extend on them, they're going to drive by you. If you sag off on them, they're going to make three-point shots. They haven't won 26 games against the caliber of competition without having some skill level. And they're very well coached.  You know, they know what they want to do, and they're very, very good at it.   Q. Steve, I think you faced Temple twice in the tournament while you were at Michigan. Is there any particular thing that you remember from those games? We won. (Laughter.) Different coach, different program, so it's different.  We're playing a different team at a different time. So I don't think that will have any impact on what happens on Saturday.  They've got a storied program. One that's been very successful with Fran and before Fran with John Chaney. And they've got a proud tradition. And, you know, they're just like us now, they want to win and advance and get to the Sweet 16.   Q. You appear to have a size advantage in the front court and they appear to have a little bit of a size advantage in the back court. Do you expect Fran on offense to try to exploit that, maybe play inside-out and get his guards down a little bit on you guys? They're a hard guard, you know. Fernandez, when they penetrate off the dribble, they are big. And they have that ability to get in off the bounce and shoot over the top of you. So I'm sure that's what they do against everybody, regardless of their size. So we're going to have to do a good job of trying to keep them in front of us on all the things they do off ball screens, dribble handoffs and all that stuff. And that will be a challenge for us.  And, you know, we -- they got a good front line, too. I mean, we're team that, like most, that likes to throw the ball inside and play off of an inside-out type of a feel. So it will be interesting to see who is able to establish some sort of a rhythm with their offensive game plan.   Q. Coach, obviously, no Aztec team has gotten to this round of the tournament before. But you have as a coach. How much different is that first-round game than the second-round game in terms of intensity or preparation or any of those factors that go in? I don't know that it is much. I think when you go in as the favorite, maybe a heavy favorite, whether you are or not, that is an added type of pressure on you. And probably most people said you are a heavy favorite when we played on Thursday against Northern Colorado. They are a very good team. We knew that. And sometimes when you are supposed to win and you look up and it's close, you get a little -- that can add to the tension that you feel.  We're going against a team that is every bit as good as we are that's going to expect to win. And I don't think that either side would say, Boy, how could they win, or how could they lose, when the outcome happens on Saturday. Whether that has any impact on playing a little more relaxed, making shots, playing better, I don't know.  For us, we took a deep breath. I don't think we were overly tight when we started the game. But well documented we hadn't won a game. But we've had a lot of games like the one we had on Thursday with Northern Colorado where it's, like, back and forth and back and forth and then we get a spurt and are able to get a little bit of a lead. So that game for us was not unlike a lot that we've played this season.   Q. Coach, do you think despite the fact that you are ranked in the top ten, it's the round of 32 at the NCAA tournament, that you are a second seed, you still can sneak up on some people who haven't really seen you much so far this year? Only on fans. But not on the teams that we're playing. They know we're good. They know we're good. And they have the same type of film sessions we do and showing things that our guys are doing that their players with respect are saying, We got to make sure we do this against that. So, no, I do not. I don't think so.   Q. Steve, from what you saw yesterday and on film, what kind of problems does Fernandez create for you guys? He's extremely intelligent, very gifted with the ball, a great passer when you have -- when he forces you to help. He's got the size to be able to both pass and shoot over you when he gets into those areas. Obviously, he had 17 first-half points, then he had the leaner, wiggle basket that won the game for them.  I read about the knee problem that he had in January that cost him to miss a few games. He's very, very good, very smart, and obviously right now probably playing with great confidence.   Q. Coach, the team has been ranked in the top five and in the top ten for most of the season. Would it be a big disappointment if you did not advance to the Sweet 16? Absolutely. And it will be for Temple. Any time right now that you lose, you're crestfallen, you are devastated. And that is the way it should be. That's why so many people are engaged, involved and interested to see what happens.  This is a wonderful game that we have the privilege to be a part of. And if you are in that winning locker room, there's no feeling like it. And if you are in that other locker room, you can play just as good and come up one point short, and you are 180 in terms of your emotions and your feelings. So at this stage when you lose, it's devastating.  We want to win. We want to win. We want to win because we want to continue to play in the pursuit of moving on and doing what everybody aspires to when you close your eyes as a little guy and dream about what you hope to accomplish. All right, coach. Thank you.   FastScripts Transcript by ASAP Sports                   About ASAP Sports •         FastScripts Archive •         Recent Interviews •         Captioning • 		Upcoming Events •         Contact Us   FastScripts |         Events Covered |         Our Clients |         Other Services |         ASAP in the News |         Site Map |         Job Opportunities |         Links      1.212 385 0297          I'm not sure who will guard him to start with. But they move him around. A lot of people will guard him during the course of the game.  This is a team that's very confident, as you know. They've won 7 in a row, 9 out of 11, and 19 out of 22. They're good. They're a good team in every facet of the game. They're well coached. They're a very, very good rebounding team. They hit you first. They run. And they're not afraid to quick shoot it. Got 4 or 5 guys, if you give them an inch they're going to shoot the three. And not just Beitzel. So they present a big challenge for us.  You know, I know some people have equated Beitzel to Jimmer Fredette. I think their team is a little like BYU. BYU sends kids on missions. Northern Colorado has red-shirted -- three of the four seniors are red-shirts and the sophomore point guard is a red-shirt sophomore. So they're older than us at every position. They're a veteran team. They've won 25 games last year and they will be confident coming in.  I've got great respect for them. I did when Tad Boyle was coaching them and I do now when Coach Hill is there. He's done a marvelous job. They're not surprised they're here. And we're not surprised they're here, either.   Q. You've told your team all season long to stop and enjoy the wins, enjoy the rankings while focusing on business. Can you enjoy the NCAA tournament while it's going on and not get distracted by all this? Well, we're working now. We got no time to enjoy. We're here working. We're in a two-game tournament. That's how we viewed it. You have to minimize distractions and try to make it as normal and as routine as it can be.  The 40-minute open forum is atypical for all of us. So you need to make sure that you don't have an advantage turn into a disadvantage. We were so excited when we got to come to Tucson. It's a five-hour car ride, it's an hour plane ride. But also it's a five-hour drive and an hour plane ride, so we're going to have a lot of people milling around, going around, wanting tickets, wanting to be around. And we cannot allow that to cause any kind of distraction on what we need to do, and that's find a way to beat a very good Northern Colorado team.   Q. Coach, I know it's been 18 years or so, what do you remember about that Jimmy King tip-in game here against UCLA? I remember we were behind 19 points in the first half. And if Chris Webber hadn't played like the number one player in the draft, like he was, we would have had no chance. We were very fortunate to be in the game at half-time. We made a couple buckets at the end of the half to come back. Then we had good fortune. We had good fortune in that game.  UCLA had a chance to win on a breakaway lay-up. Again, Jimmy King came from behind, knocked the ball out of bounds, or we go home before he has a chance to tip in Jalen Rose's misshot to allow us to win.  You have to get a little lucky. If you are going to advance, you have to play well, you have to have a good team. But you also have to have good fortune along the way. And obviously for us in that game, we got good fortune coupled with good play to allow us an opportunity to win at the end.   Q. Given the way the program struggled before your arrival, did anyone try to tell you that elevating this program to where it is now just wasn't going to be possible? I didn't listen to anybody other than my wife when I went looking at this job. I felt that from the city to the university to the brick and mortar, to our arena -- and some of you have been in our building, we've got a really, really beautiful state-of-the-art arena -- I said why can't we be good? I knew other good coaches had been there. Guys with resumes had been there and struggled, but they didn't have the luxury until right at the end of Fred Trenkle's tenure of having that building.  So I had an advantage over the others. Then we said we love the kids that we have, but we've got to get better players. So we went out and worked hard on the recruiting trail. Which is what everybody has to do if you are going to get good. And, you know, we got good. And now we've gotten real good.   Q. Some of the Temple players were up here earlier talking about -- the Colorado team, about how everyone was asking how they've never won an NCAA tournament and they're worried whether they're going to break that streak or instead of talking about the 25-win season. You guys are maybe a little of the same position. Does it bother you so much emphasis by the public is placed on what you do in this tournament and that if you don't get to a certain point in this tournament, you know, 32-win season won't be considered as much of a success? That's the way it is with everybody, Mark. Everybody in the tournament will be judged with double exclamation points if they've had a great season by what they do in the tournament. It won't -- whatever happens to us in the tournament will not take away from a great regular season; 32 wins, two losses, both to BYU, that's there. That's part of our resume.  And, yet, people remember those that advance. People remember those that get into the NCAA tournament and find a way to win. And that's our goal. We're no different than Northern Colorado or anybody playing in it.  We're excited. We expect to win. They do, too.  It will be bitter disappointment for whatever team doesn't advance from our game on Thursday, ourselves included. But it won't take away from what we've done in our regular season. Coach, thank you very much. We appreciate it. Good luck. Coach, thank you.   FastScripts Transcript by ASAP Sports                   About ASAP Sports •         FastScripts Archive •         Recent Interviews •         Captioning • 		Upcoming Events •         Contact Us   FastScripts |         Events Covered |         Our Clients |         Other Services |         ASAP in the News |         Site Map |         Job Opportunities |         Links      1.212 385 0297         

 
## GPU
Let's make sure we're using a Nvidia T4 GPU to make or process easier (the T4
has more memory and is faster). 

**In [4]:**

{% highlight python %}
!nvidia-smi
{% endhighlight %}

    Mon Mar 23 20:01:00 2020       
    +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | NVIDIA-SMI 440.64.00    Driver Version: 418.67       CUDA Version: 10.1     |
    |-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
    | GPU  Name        Persistence-M| Bus-Id        Disp.A | Volatile Uncorr. ECC |
    | Fan  Temp  Perf  Pwr:Usage/Cap|         Memory-Usage | GPU-Util  Compute M. |
    |===============================+======================+======================|
    |   0  Tesla T4            Off  | 00000000:00:04.0 Off |                    0 |
    | N/A   61C    P8    10W /  70W |      0MiB / 15079MiB |      0%      Default |
    +-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
                                                                                   
    +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | Processes:                                                       GPU Memory |
    |  GPU       PID   Type   Process name                             Usage      |
    |=============================================================================|
    |  No running processes found                                                 |
    +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

 
## Downloading GPT-2

If you're retraining a model on new text, you need to download the GPT-2 model
first.

There are three released sizes of GPT-2 that can be fine tuned and trained our
own text:

* `124M` (default): the "small" model, 500MB on disk.
* `355M`: the "medium" model, 1.5GB on disk. 

**In [5]:**

{% highlight python %}
gpt2.download_gpt2(model_name="355M")
{% endhighlight %}

    Fetching checkpoint: 1.05Mit [00:00, 269Mit/s]                                                      
    Fetching encoder.json: 1.05Mit [00:00, 112Mit/s]                                                    
    Fetching hparams.json: 1.05Mit [00:00, 266Mit/s]                                                    
    Fetching model.ckpt.data-00000-of-00001: 1.42Git [00:17, 81.1Mit/s]                                 
    Fetching model.ckpt.index: 1.05Mit [00:00, 313Mit/s]                                                
    Fetching model.ckpt.meta: 1.05Mit [00:00, 129Mit/s]                                                 
    Fetching vocab.bpe: 1.05Mit [00:00, 181Mit/s]                                                       

 
# Mounting to Drive

In order to get more space and save our model to Google Drive, we need to mount
the drive. 

**In [6]:**

{% highlight python %}
gpt2.mount_gdrive()
{% endhighlight %}

    Go to this URL in a browser: https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth?client_id=947318989803-6bn6qk8qdgf4n4g3pfee6491hc0brc4i.apps.googleusercontent.com&redirect_uri=urn%3aietf%3awg%3aoauth%3a2.0%3aoob&response_type=code&scope=email%20https%3a%2f%2fwww.googleapis.com%2fauth%2fdocs.test%20https%3a%2f%2fwww.googleapis.com%2fauth%2fdrive%20https%3a%2f%2fwww.googleapis.com%2fauth%2fdrive.photos.readonly%20https%3a%2f%2fwww.googleapis.com%2fauth%2fpeopleapi.readonly
    
    Enter your authorization code:
    ··········
    Mounted at /content/drive


**In [7]:**

{% highlight python %}
import shutil
shutil.move(file_name, '/content/drive/My Drive/'+file_name)
{% endhighlight %}




    '/content/drive/My Drive/kawhi_leonard.txt'



**In [0]:**

{% highlight python %}
gpt2.copy_file_from_gdrive(file_name)
{% endhighlight %}
 
## Finetune GPT-2

*  **`restore_from`**: Set to `fresh` to start training from the base GPT-2, or
set to `latest` to restart training from an existing checkpoint.
* **`sample_every`**: Number of steps to print example output
* **`print_every`**: Number of steps to print training progress.
* **`learning_rate`**:  Learning rate for the training. (default `1e-4`, can
lower to `1e-5` if you have <1MB input data)
*  **`run_name`**: subfolder within `checkpoint` to save the model. This is
useful if you want to work with multiple models (will also need to specify
`run_name` when loading the model)
* **`overwrite`**: Set to `True` if you want to continue finetuning an existing
model (w/ `restore_from='latest'`) without creating duplicate copies. 

**In [9]:**

{% highlight python %}
tf.reset_default_graph()
sess = gpt2.start_tf_sess()
gpt2.finetune(sess,
              dataset=file_name,
              model_name='355M',
              steps=1000,
              restore_from='fresh',
              overwrite=True,
              run_name=run_name,
              print_every=100,
              sample_every=500,
              save_every=500,
              )
{% endhighlight %}

    WARNING:tensorflow:From /usr/local/lib/python3.6/dist-packages/gpt_2_simple/src/sample.py:17: where (from tensorflow.python.ops.array_ops) is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
    Instructions for updating:
    Use tf.where in 2.0, which has the same broadcast rule as np.where
    WARNING:tensorflow:From /usr/local/lib/python3.6/dist-packages/gpt_2_simple/src/memory_saving_gradients.py:62: get_backward_walk_ops (from tensorflow.contrib.graph_editor.select) is deprecated and will be removed after 2019-06-06.
    Instructions for updating:
    Please use tensorflow.python.ops.op_selector.get_backward_walk_ops.
    Loading checkpoint models/355M/model.ckpt
    INFO:tensorflow:Restoring parameters from models/355M/model.ckpt


    100%|██████████| 1/1 [00:00<00:00,  6.25it/s]

    Loading dataset...
    dataset has 24598 tokens
    Training...


    


    [100 | 167.54] loss=0.83 avg=0.83
    [200 | 328.96] loss=0.12 avg=0.47
    [300 | 490.58] loss=0.13 avg=0.36
    [400 | 651.82] loss=0.05 avg=0.28
    [500 | 812.98] loss=0.03 avg=0.23
    Saving checkpoint/kawhi_leonard/model-500
    ======== SAMPLE 1 ========
     like I said, we were missing a lot of wide-open shots.I think we did a good job moving the ball.Â I felt like we came out with the game, knocked down some shots, and then K-Lo played really, really well.I thought in that third quarter, offensively we didn't shoot that well.Some of our passing was a little off.I liked the flow of the game.It seemed like we were in the right places at the right times.Â I felt like we just talked it out, actually, and brought it to the game. Just got to remain calm and wait for the game to develop. It didn't.Â It looked like it was moving fast.I don't think we locked in.Like I said, we were missing a lot of wide-open shots.I think we did a good job moving the ball.Â I felt like we came out with the game, knocked down some shots, and then K-Lo played really, really well.I thought in that third quarter, offensively we didn't shoot that well.Some of our passing was a little off.I like the flow of the game.It seems like we're in the right place at the right time.Â  I still feel like there's room to improve, especially on the defensive end.It's something that we talked about going into the season.  And, you know, we came out and did a good job of it.  You know, I feel like we just go out there and play extremely hard.And that's exactly what we did.We stayed warm under the car and made sure to stay warm.  And, you know, we didn't panic.  We were confident.  We're on the road, down four, we wanted to come in and have a good third quarter coming up.  And, you know, we ended up doing that, but it's really not about us going head-to-head, it's about us trying to win the game.  And, you know, we ended up doing a good job, but it's not over yet.  So we'll have to go back to the drawing board and see what we can do better collectively.Coming up, I thought we did a good job.Just keep being consistent and just keep being aggressive.  At times when I do have the ball, the offense gets real stagnant and we just stay in one spot, and that's so easy to guard when he's in that mode.  So it's about just being aggressive and don't shy away from anything.  I think that's about it.  We'll see tomorrow. I mean, I didn't even touch the ball until maybe the fourth quarter.  So I didn't think at all about it.  Just a bunch of guys coming together.  That's how it is.  You got to go into the game confident and know what can you do to help your team win.  We're going against a great team, a deep team.  You just got to be ready for them.  We're going against a great team.  That's what I try to do.  It's a team that wants to come in and compete, that's why they're in The Finals.  They want to get to the game and play.  It's a team that wants to win.  Like I said, don't get too down.  They're a great basketball team.  Just keep fighting, keep striving, don't give up and just have a confidence, self-confidence in yourself that you're going to win the game.  I mean, that's all can you do, lay it out on the floor and see what happens. He doesn't need no prep talks.  He's going out there doing it.  He's not a guy that's shying away.  He's very aggressive when's on the floor and I mean, when we talk it's a group effort, you know what I mean?  And hopefully everybody hears it and brings it to the game, takes the knowledge that we all put in our knowledge and experience from past times and that is all we can do.  It's a team basketball game. For sure.  I mean, whenever he does play or say he's going to be playing, we're definitely going to have to prep for him.  He's another guy that could just score 30 points in his sleep, and I mean, everybody knows who he is and for sure we're going to have to prep for him. Just anxiousness, wanting to get to the game and play.  When I was young my first Finals, 20, probably second year in the league, and not knowing really what to expect.  But after that, going into my second one, you pretty much know what to expect, and we were playing the same team.  It's just the same basketball game.  It's five-on-five.  It's still two hoops.
    
    [600 | 1009.89] loss=0.04 avg=0.20
    [700 | 1172.28] loss=0.06 avg=0.18
    [800 | 1334.63] loss=0.04 avg=0.16
    [900 | 1497.01] loss=0.02 avg=0.14
    [1000 | 1659.42] loss=0.06 avg=0.13
    Saving checkpoint/kawhi_leonard/model-1000
    WARNING:tensorflow:From /tensorflow-1.15.0/python3.6/tensorflow_core/python/training/saver.py:963: remove_checkpoint (from tensorflow.python.training.checkpoint_management) is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
    Instructions for updating:
    Use standard file APIs to delete files with this prefix.


**In [0]:**

{% highlight python %}
gpt2.copy_checkpoint_to_gdrive(run_name=run_name)
{% endhighlight %}
 
## Load a Trained Model Checkpoint

If we've saved the model to our Google Drive, we can reload it in this manner.

Running the next cell will copy the `.rar` checkpoint file from your Google
Drive into the Colaboratory VM. 

**In [0]:**

{% highlight python %}
# gpt2.copy_checkpoint_from_gdrive(run_name=run_name)
{% endhighlight %}
 
The next cell will allow you to load the retrained model checkpoint + metadata
necessary to generate text.

**IMPORTANT NOTE:** If you want to rerun this cell, **restart the VM first**
(Runtime -> Restart Runtime). You will need to rerun imports but not recopy
files. 

**In [0]:**

{% highlight python %}
# sess = gpt2.start_tf_sess()
# gpt2.load_gpt2(sess, run_name=run_name)
{% endhighlight %}
 
# Text Generation

Now, we can play around with it as much as we want! Here are some relevant
parameters:

*  **`length`**: Number of tokens to generate (default 1023, the maximum)
* **`temperature`**: The higher the temperature, the crazier the text (default
0.7, recommended to keep between 0.7 and 1.0)
* **`top_k`**: Limits the generated guesses to the top *k* guesses (default 0
which disables the behavior; if the generated output is super crazy, you may
want to set `top_k=40`)
* **`top_p`**: Nucleus sampling: limits the generated guesses to a cumulative
probability. (gets good results on a dataset with `top_p=0.9`)
* **`truncate`**: Truncates the input text until a given sequence, excluding
that sequence (e.g. if `truncate='<|endoftext|>'`, the returned text will
include everything before the first `<|endoftext|>`). It may be useful to
combine this with a smaller `length` if the input texts are short.
*  **`include_prefix`**: If using `truncate` and `include_prefix=False`, the
specified `prefix` will not be included in the returned text. 

**In [13]:**

{% highlight python %}
gpt2.generate(sess,
              length=250,
              temperature=1.0,
              prefix="What do you about the coronavirus?",
              nsamples=5,
              batch_size=5,
              run_name=run_name
              )
{% endhighlight %}

    What do you about the coronavirus? It's very difficult to fight it.  We've had great success against it in the past.  In fact, we're probably a little longer, a little more athletic and a little more gifted with our passing.  So I don't think that would have any effect on that. I mean, it would be for any of the viruses that we fight.  There are always going to be guys that get the benefit of the doubt and the media, and they're always going to say, "He's a good guy."  But they don't have collective bargaining right now, so they're able to speak freely.  You have to get around the league, and that's where we are at.  So we're going to have to do a better job of getting to this point.   Q. You've told your team all season long to stop and enjoy the wins, enjoy the rankings while focusing on business. Can you enjoy the NCAA tournament while it's going on and not get distracted by all this? Well, we're working now.  We got no time to enjoy.  We're here working.  We're in a two-game tournament.  We have a purpose.  We're going to be
    ====================
    What do you about the coronavirus?  It's nothing that you can do.  It's really not got anything to do with you.  It's more about how the body works.  The body will normally protect itself from becoming infected with anything that's harmful to it. But in the case of the Heat, they did a great job of that. They really did a good job of that.  You know, as the season went on, I just started seeing how guys' minutes were and what guys like to do on the floor and how it was contributing into wins.  At that point, I just really started caring about it.  I don't read the media or see what you guys are saying about it, so -- but I personally think because I really don't follow the media, I don't get a lot of questions about it.  I really don't read the Internet or see what you guys are saying about it, either. I think it just really comes to being patient and let's see what happens.  It's starting to pay off now.  We're in the Finals, and we're not done yet.  So, I mean, that's just -- that's just my mindset at the moment.  Just trying to get to
    ====================
    What do you about the coronavirus?  It's nothing really. It's not like you get a p***y on the back or something like that. It's more like, How bad has it been in the last two or three weeks for you guys?  How many losses have you guys suffered in a row now?  I think we're doing a good job right now.  You should know, right?  We're playing a good basketball team basketball team.  They play with each other well, communicate well, control the ball, be patient, don't be shy.  And that's pretty much it.  They're not surprised they're here.  They know where the coach is and what the players do.  So, you know, that's pretty much it.  I mean, it's really not asked like that.  It's pretty much the situations of how many losses have you guys seen this season, or what have you, and how many wins have you guys seen this season?  I think we're doing a good job right now.  You should know, right?  We're playing good basketball.  They shouldn't be surprised we're here.  We play within ourselves, we're a proud family, and we're
    ====================
    What do you about the coronavirus?  You throw it up there, see what happens.  We usually get one person to contract it, and we usually get it under control within a day or two.  So it's not endemic.  It's a very serious disease.  And like I said, we've got to make sure that we're not putting our hands on anybody or doing anything involving animals.  Because we know that there will be an epidemic like this one in a thousand years.  If we don't protect ourselves in this manner, we're not going to survive.  And that's why we're here.  If you're not going to survive, you shouldn't be here.  So when I say people, I really mean close friends and family.  Not just basketball fans.  I don't even -- I don't know if you guys knew that or not (laughter). Yeah, I spoke to Billy several times throughout the course of the season.  He's always on the TNT set.  He's one of the greatest players to ever play the game, one of the greatest teammates, one of the greatest coaches.  And I just think because Billy has been in the league a long time, he's become more comfortable with himself
    ====================
    What do you about the coronavirus?  What are you going to do about it?  We're fortunate enough that our facility is able to do prevention and control.  You don't get too close.  You should never get close to something that could be dangerous.  And we're not allowed to handle that close to anything. We should always err on the side of caution.  If somebody has any kind of fever, it's probably a good idea to keep them home.  And if they're going to be out playing two or three games, it's probably a good idea to limit them to one game.  That's pretty much it.  If you're playing two or three games, you probably want to play one game, really, and see how it goes.  If it's good, you're going to play more than if it's bad.  Just seeing how it is for 30 days, three weeks, that's pretty much it.  You're just living in the moment.  That's where you make your decisions and you're not worried about what the media or fans are going to think.  Because we're playing for each other, we're playing for each other, and we're embracing it and embracing what we got here. A
    ====================

