---
title: "Leetcode 2915: Length of the Longest Subsequence That Sums to Target"
date: 2023-03-09
permalink: /notes/2024/03/09/leetcode-2915
tags:
    - leetcode
    - leetcode medium
    - dynamic programming
    - interview prep
--- 

[Problem Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/length-of-the-longest-subsequence-that-sums-to-target/) 

---

This problem was featured on LeetCode's 116th biweekly contest. The problem statement is as follows:

You are given a 0-indexed array of integers `nums`, and an integer `target`.

Return the length of the longest subsequence of `nums` that sums up to `target`. If no such subsequence exists, return `-1`.

A subsequence is an array that can be derived from another array by deleting some or no elements without changing the order of the remaining elements.

Constraints:
{% highlight python %}
1 <= nums.length <= 1000
1 <= nums[i] <= 1000
1 <= target <= 1000
{% endhighlight %}
---

If you've solved problems like [Minimum cost for tickets](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-cost-for-tickets/), [Most expensive item that cannot be bought](https://leetcode.com/problems/most-expensive-item-that-can-not-be-bought/), or [Coin change](https://leetcode.com/problems/coin-change/), it's fairly easy to diagnose this as a dynamic programming problem. But, if not, here is the thought process to come to that conclusion.

1) Take a look at the constraints.

1000 is a relatively small number, so we obviously don't need a `O(n)` or even `O(nlogn)` solution, so we can eliminate possibilities like greedy, etc.

2) Take a look at the parameters.

So you have a list of numbers. The problem will scale by a factor of the length of the numbers which we will call `n`. But we **also** have a target. As target increases, we can expect the time/space complexity to increase as well. The time/space complexity we can anticipate to be ~`O(n*t)` where `t` is the target.

3) Is the problem easier to solve using a subproblem?

We should be hinting at 2D DP by now simply based on the time and space complexity. But to finalize it, we can ask ourself the classic question: "Can I solve the problem easily if I know the solution to a subproblem?".

For example, let's say you are trying to add the number `2` to your solution subsequence and have a target of `3`.

Adding `2` obviously adds `2` to your previous sum, so you better have a previous sum of `1` using only the previous elements in `num`. 

This leads us to conclude that Dynamic Programming would appear to be the best approach.

## Optimal Substructure
So how can we build up the solution for `target` using all the numbers in `nums`? We can break it down into simpler scenarios where we go through every number up to `target` and limit the number of `nums` we use.

This way, when we reach the next number in `nums` at index `i` we can simply check if we are able to build `target - nums[i]` using the previous `i-1` elements in `nums`.

So one option for the solution would be:

`solution(target, i) = solution(target - nums[i], i - 1) + 1`

where `i` is the index of the element we are trying to add.

But consider another simple scenario. What if we have `nums = [1, 2, 3]` and `target = 3`. When we get to `nums[i] = 3`, we will say:

`solution(3, 2) = solution(3 - 3, 2) + 1 = solution(0, 2) + 1`

And just logically, we know that to get a `target` of `0`, our length must be `0` and say that the solution is `1`. But this is not right since we can also use `1+2` to get a target of `3`.

Thankfully, we will have already solved this when `nums[i] = 2` by saying that:

`solution(3, 1) = solution(3 - 2, 1) + 1 = 1 + 1 = 2`

So we have to modify our optimal substructure to also include the option of **not** using the current number in `nums` and keeping the same solution from the previous index `i-1`. In other words:

`solution(target, i) = max(solution(target - nums[i], i - 1) + 1, solution(target, i - 1))`

One other thing to note is that we will be building our solution bottom-up. This means that we don't want to encounter `nums[i] = 100` before encountering `nums[i] = 1`. So we have to make sure that we sort `nums` prior to building our DP table. 

## Example

With this in mind, let's run through an explicit example:

`nums = [4,1,3,2,1,5]`, `target = 7`

After sorting: `nums = [1, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`.

|    target   | Using 1 | Using 1, 1 | Using 1, 1, 2 | Using 1, 1, 2, 3 | Using 1, 1, 2, 3, 4 | Using 1, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 |
| ----------- | ------- | ---------- | ------------- | ---------------- | ------------------- | ---------------------- |
| 0           | 0       | 0          | 0             | 0                | 0                   | 0                      |
| 1           | 1       | 1          | 1             | 1                | 1                   | 1                      |
| 2           | 2    | -inf       | 2             | 2                | 2                   | 2                      |
| 3           | -inf    | -inf       | 2             | 2                | 2                   | 2                      |
| 4           | -inf    | -inf       | 3             | 3                | 3                   | 3                      |
| 5           | -inf    | -inf          | -inf       | 3                | 3                   | 3                      |
| 6           | -inf    | -inf          | -inf       | 3                | 3                   | 3                      |
| 7           | -inf    | -inf          | -inf       | 4                | 4                   | 4                      |

Let's go over 2 explicit cases:

#### Case 1: `target = 4`, `Using 1, 1, 2`

We take the maximum of the previous column (`solution(target, i - 1)` )and the value at row `target - nums[i]` column `i - 1` or row `target = 2` column `i = 1` plus 1.

The previous column says we cannot get `target = 4` using just `1, 1`. The value at the `(2, 1)` says we can get a sum of `2` using 2 numbers. So we add 1 to this 2 and obtain 3.

#### Case 2: `target = 4`, `Using 1, 1, 2, 3`

We take the maximum of the previous column (`solution(target, i - 1)` ) and the value at row `target - nums[i]` column `i - 1` or row `target = 1` column `i = 2` plus 1.

The first option says we can either keep 3 elements or we can get to 4 using 1 + 1 = 2 elements (`1+3`). This is smaller than the first option, so we will keep the value from the previous column.

## Solution

Now, we can finally arrive at the solution. The bulk logic is explained above, but there are some minor tidbits to mention here:

1) We initialize the `dp` table to be `float(-inf)` for each column of each row from `0.... target + 1`

2) Since the `target = 0` can be obtained using `0` elements, we initialize the first row to `0`'s

3) When looping through the columns, we don't want to look at the previous column if we are at the first column. In fact, the only way we can achieve that target `t` using only a that single number `nums[j]` is if `t == nums[j]`.

4) When looking back at a previous row in the table, we want to make sure that the row is in bounds (i.e. greater than or equal to 0). Otherwise, Python's negative indexing could give us bugs.

5) If the previous row is out of bounds, we have no option but to take the value at the previous column

6) The solution will be the maximum value at the last row of the `dp` table. Note that if we cannot obtain `target`, we will have `float(-inf)` in this location, so we take the maximum of that value and `-1`.

{% highlight python %}
class Solution:
    def lengthOfLongestSubsequence(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> int:
        nums.sort()
        dp = [[float('-inf')]*len(nums) for i in range(target + 1)]
        dp[0] = [0] * len(nums)
        
        for t in range(1, target + 1):
            for j in range(len(nums)):
                if j == 0:
                    if t == nums[j]:
                        dp[t][j] = 1
                else:
                    if t - nums[j] >= 0:
                        dp[t][j] = max(dp[t][j - 1], dp[t - nums[j]][j - 1] + 1)
                    else:
                        dp[t][j] = dp[t][j - 1]

        return max(dp[-1][-1], -1)
                
{% endhighlight %}

I hope this solution helps you make more sense of bottom-up tabulation and 2D dynamic programming!