---
title: "A Rough Weekend at Yosemite"
date: 2020-01-26
permalink: /rockclimbing/2020/01/26/santa-barbara
tags:
--- 

"You guys get out there just to climb?"

"Driving 5 hours just to get to Santa Barbara? Is that really worth it?"

"Why don't you guys just take a weekend off and stay inside?"

These are the questions my brother and I hear when we get out to Santa Barbara. I succumbed to these voices last week, but I made it a point to get outside with him this weekend.

Now, it may not have been the most successful trip. We only sent a [V7 OG Arete](), but it was well worth the learning experience.

# 01/22/2020 - Bishop Peak and Lizard's Mouth

## Sisyphus (V8) at Bishop Peak, San Luis Obispo

We spent the majority of the way at a hidden gem called [Sisyphus](). Aptly named as it felt like every time we unlocked the crux sequence, we had to start all the way over again at the bottom of the hill.

The style of climbing is primarily narrow compression. Something I would call my brother's strength. We sussed out the start sequence fairly quickly, but were stumped by the crux.

The crux revolves around a narrow position with a high right hand undercling above a left hand jug. You have to make a big throw off a high left foot and a terrible right hand pinch to a slopey slot.

Vikas deemed this sequence near his power limit and gave several send burns, but failed to link it. Thankfully, I found an alternate sequence with a high right hand vertical pinch and aimed to set a hand toe match to bust out to the left slopey holds. So what limited us?

I think I didn't attempt the crux move the way I knew it enough. I kept trying to readjust my right hand on the vertical pinch despite knowing *it wasn't going to get any better*. I think the learning lesson for me is that, sometimes, there isn't going to a better hand position. **Just try hard and execute.**

## Fred Nicole Project (V8) at Lizard's Mouth, Santa Barbara

Fred Nicole Project felt out of my league. I felt like I hadn't gripped holds like that before anywhere - indoors or outdoors. The high tension slopey dishes of Lizard's Mouth stumped both of us and it felt like more of a long-term project. 

Maybe I need to work my open hand strength more to feel better on those holds?

# 01/23/2020 - Potter's Point

## Debra (V8) at Potter's Point, Santa Barbara

Debra is probably the most aesthetic and iconic line at Potter's Point. The start movement is relatively simple moving on steep jugs, but the crux revolves around matching a crimp and jumping out to a large jug.

While Vikas was able to jump out to jug with 4 fingers *completely* on the hold, he was never able to execute in sequence. He later discovered that he will never be able to get that many digits on the left hand itself and decided that he needs more 3 finger open hand strength to leap.

I was never even able to stick the jump. I felt awkward and uncoordinated jumping out of the low drop knee, despite having more finger strength.

Once agan, I discovered that I need to work on jumping off of low feet out of narrow positions. This movement also stumped me on the Diamond in Yosemite.

## The Brute (V8) at Potter's Point, Santa Barbara

This problem also felt out of our league. I felt better on the initial lock off to the high left hand crimp, but both of us were stumped by the dyno over the lip off the small left hand crimp. A long term project no doubt.

## Thomas Aquinas (V7) at Potter's Point, Santa Barbara

This was probably our most productive problem outside of Sisyphus over the trip. We truly got into a flow state and learnt a lot.

The crux sequence on this problem revolves around a slopey left hand sidepull and long pull through on a heinous deep drop-knee over to a right hand slopey pinch.

I never felt movement like before and often found it hard to replicate the ease with I did it at times. I think it's an issue with my body tension and ability to stand up. Vikas got very close, but was not able to send either.

# 1/24/2020 - Potter's Point

## OG Arete (V7) at Potter's Point, Santa Barbara

We discovered this new boulder *sick* looking boulder the day before and opted to try it out - no beta, no help.

We were pretty proud of the way we were able to execute and figure out the sequence. I was especially proud as the crux sequence revolved on locking off on a high left heel into a left gaston - two weaknesses I had discovered on Dancing Outlaw (V8) at the Brickyard. 

Both of us were able to dispatch this proud line fairly quickly.

## Debra (V8) at Potter's Point, Santa Barbara

Neither of us had a very productive 2nd session at Debra, I thought. Vikas repeated the jump a couple times and we came to the realization we needed more than what we had to progress on this boulder, so we went over too the last boulder of the day.

## Thomas Aquinas (V7) at Potter's Point, Santa Barbara

Not sure what happened here - maybe skin or maybe the cold wind or maybe just 3rd day on vibes, but I was never even able to execute the crux sequence once this day. I tried hard on it, but never had the same flow of the previous day. Projects remain...

# Conclusions and Takeaways
- Santa Barbara and SLO remain stout and sandbagged locations with unique movement - we have to get back to diversify our climbing ability
- Potter's Point is notoriously fingery climbing and requires a lot of finger strength - more so than other Santa Barbara destinations
- I need to work on slopey open hands as demonstrated by my failures on Debra and Fred Nicole Project
- I also need to work on jumping out of low feet
