---
title: "Day Trip to Yosemite"
date: 2020-02-01
permalink: /rockclimbing/2020/02/01/yosemite
tags:
--- 



# 02/01/2020 - Yosemite Day Trip to El Cap Boulder and Camp 4 

## Spock Direct (V8) at the El Cap Boulder 

We spent the majority of the day at the El Cap Boulder. This is a little roadside highball gem on the way out of Yosemite right before a big left hand turn after Camp 4, but before the big meadow.

We tried Silver Tooth of the South (v8) for a little bit, but deemed it to be a height issue problem. We were having issues weighting our shoulder in extended ranges of motion. Since we hardly spent any time on it, I'm not going to disucss it further.

The main event was Spock Direct, a highball V8 with the crux as the first 2 moves. The first move is what I would describe as 'lurpy'. Starting matched on a right side arete, you have to flick out to a good left hand crimp. It feels like your body is too close to the wall, but it's primarily coordination to ensure your butt doesn't sag as you go for the throw.

Unfortunately, I was never able to stick this move, but was able to crank through the rest of the problem.

I'm extremely pleased with the way I attacked this boulder and found unique beta for it completely. There's a **massive** throw out right toward the top that I was intimidated by. In classic manner, I found a nifty little toe-hook to make the move static. With this beta, I ensured that only the first move was the limiting factor.

I was able to snag a send of the V6 (Spock was here) and opted to return for the direct version.

[Here's a video of me on the send](https://vimeo.com/390326535).


## Bruce Lee (V8) at Camp 4, Yosemite

Bruce Lee is a nemesis problem of ours. Every time we come back to it, we feel like we have to start at step -1.

I'm glad to say I made **huge** progress on it though. I was able to execute all the moves except the very top move to the lip, but doing them in sequence feels very challenging.

The climb is primarily body positioning, crimp strength, and skin. I think we're planning on taking a break from this thing and coming back in the near future.


# Conclusions and Takeaways
- I need to work on my coordination and flicky movements. Vikas flows incredibly well on these types of moves and I need to get on his level. The Kilter Board is really good for training this 'two foot on hip flick' movement and I need to practice it in the future.
- Need to recalibrate on Bruce Lee...
